GOOD EVENING EVERYONE AND
WELCOME TO THE APRIL 3RD
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR CITY
COUNCIL.
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
ALLEGIANCE
I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE
TO THE FLAG OF THE UNITED
COMPUTER.
IT STANDS ONE WITH LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR
BUT OUR CLERK
PLEASE CALL THE ROLE OF COUNSEL
TOMATIS HERE COUNCILMAN
HARRISON HERE COUNCILPERSON
HERE COUNCILOR WATSON HERE,
HOUSE MEMBER DENHA HERE TELLS
WORKHOUSES HERE WE ARE TAYLOR.
HERE IS OUR HERE COMES HERE
TELLS MARGARET YOU'RE
COUNCILMAN CORNELL WE HAVE A
QUORUM.
THE MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA MOVE BY COUNCILMAN
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGG'S DISCUSSION OF THE
AGENDA ALL FAVOR OPPOSED.
THE AGENDA IS APPROVED.
WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR NO
MAYOR, THANK YOU.
WE DO HAVE AN INTRODUCTION FROM
OUR INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY
POLICE OVERSIGHT COMMISSION, AN
UPDATE FROM OUR CHAIR CARTER.
GOOD EVENING, MAYOR TAYLOR AND
COUNCIL MEMBERS.
YOU KNOW WHEN I STOOD HERE AND
SPOKE WITH YOU A COUPLE
OF WEEKS AGO, I DID SO AS THE
VICE CHAIR.
WHAT A DIFFERENCE A COUPLE
OF WEEKS MAKES.
I AM NOW THE CHAIR OF A PARK
AND SO IT IS GOOD TO GREET YOU
IN THAT POSITION JUST BY THE
INTRODUCTION SINCE YOU PROBABLY
DON'T KNOW ME I HAVE BEEN
PRACTICING LAW HERE IN
WASHINGTON COUNTY FOR OVER
FORTY FIVE YEARS.
I INITIALLY STARTED WITH THE
COUNTY PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE SO I
WORK WITH A LOT OF POLICE
OFFICERS EVERY DAY FROM THE DAY
I CAME HERE TO THE CITY
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE I WAS AN
ASSISTANT CITY ATTORNEY AND THE
FIRST ASSISTANT CITY ATTORNEY
AND AS SUCH I REPRESENT POLICE
OFFICERS LARRY TIRED FROM THE
CITY WHICH I THINK WAS NINETY
SEVEN OR NINETY EIGHT.
I WENT INTO PRIVATE PRACTICE
AND IN THAT POSITION I SUED
POLICE OFFICERS.
I GREW UP IN THE CITY
OF DETROIT AND WHEN I GREW UP
IN THE CITY OF DETROIT THE
POLICE COULD PROBABLY RIGHTLY
HAVE BEEN CALLED TERRORISTS.
WE WERE TERRIFIED OF THEM.
THEY HAD AN ORGANIZATION I
DON'T KNOW IF YOU'VE HEARD
OF IT THE BIG FOUR WOULD LIKE
THROUGH OUR COMMUNITIES AND
THEY HAD DONE SOMETIMES
STICKING OUT OF THE BACK
WINDOWS OF THE CARS AND WE
WOULD JUST RUN I THINK I HAVE A
PRETTY WELL ROUNDED VIEW
OF POLICING AND I AM HAPPY TO
BE HERE IN THIS POSITION TODAY.
SO WHAT IS IT THEN THAT YOU CAN
EXPECT PROBABLY NOTHING NEW.
I'M STANDING ON THE SHOES
OF SOME VERY CAPABLE PREVIOUS
TEARS OF THIS COMMISSION BUT A
COUPLE OF THINGS THAT I'M
LOOKING AT AND YOU MAY BE
HEARING MORE ABOUT LATER ONE
HAS TO DO WITH A COMPLAINT
REVIEW AND AS YOU KNOW, THAT'S
ONE OF THE MAIN THINGS THAT WE
DO IS REVIEW COMPLAINTS AND
COMPLAINTS COME DIRECTLY TO
BACK SOME OTHERS COME THROUGH
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
WE ARE HOPING TO GET AND WORK
WITH BACKLOG.
WE HAVE NOT HAD AN OPPORTUNITY
TO REVIEW ALL THE COMPLAINTS,
NOT TO TELL EXACTLY WHAT WE
NEED BECAUSE I DON'T I GET THIS
FROM FOLKS WHO WORK WITH IT BUT
WE ARE HOPING TO GET THE
CREATION OF A SPREADSHEET AND A
WARPAGE AND AS I UNDERSTAND IT,
THIS WILL ALLOW US TO POST
THINGS THAT WE PROGRESS SO THAT
THE COMMUNITY CAN KNOW WHAT
WE'RE DOING AND COMMUNICATE
BETWEEN THE INFORMATION
MANAGERS AND THE VICE CHAIR NOW
AND I HAVE A MEETING I BELIEVE
SCHEDULED WITH THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO SEE HOW WE CAN
MOVE QUICKLY WITH THIS PROJECT
OF GETTING OUR SPREADSHEET AND
EVERYTHING UP AND RUNNING.
SO THAT'S NUMBER ONE THE NEXT
THING WE EXPECT TO DO YOU KNOW,
THE POLICE OFFICERS HAVE
BUSINESS CARDS THAT THEY HAND
OUT IF THE CITIZEN REQUESTS IT
RIGHT NOW HAS IDENTIFIED THE
OFFICER AND IT THE INFORMATION
ABOUT VICTIMS RIGHTS WE ARE
HOPING AND MAYBE IT MIGHT HAVE
TO BE A DOUBLE FOLDED CARD
WE'RE HOPING TO ADD INFORMATION
ABOUT IT AND SO THAT IF THE
CITIZEN HAS A COMPLAINT OR A
COMPLIMENT ABOUT A POLICE
OFFICER, THEY CAN CONTACT US.
SO THAT'S SOMETHING THAT WE
HOPE TO GET GOING.
WE ARE LOOKING AT YOU KNOW, THE
BIBLE SAYS THAT THE POWER
OF LIFE IS IN THE TOWN AND I
BELIEVE THAT TO BE TRUE IN SOME
TIMES.
YOU KNOW, THE THINGS ARE SET IN
THE INITIAL CONFRONTATION
BETWEEN THE OFFICER IN THE
CITIZEN I HOPE TO STRESS
COURTESY AND KINDNESS AND I
THINK IF WE LOOK AT THAT FIRST
A LOT OF THINGS THAT CAN HAPPEN
LATER CAN ESCALATE MAY POSSIBLY
BE AVERTED.
SO HOPEFULLY WE CAN BUILD THAT
INTO OUR TRAINING AND THEN
FINALLY YOU MAY BE FINALLY IN
THAT FAMILY THAT WE'RE GOING TO
DO, BUT THAT'S ALL I'M GOING TO
TELL YOU ABOUT TONIGHT.
YOU MAY HAVE HEARD YOU
PROBABLY
DID HEAR ABOUT A STUDY THAT WAS
BEING CONDUCTED PRIMARILY
THROUGH EASTERN MICHIGAN
UNIVERSITY WITH A GRANT THAT
CAME DOWN SORT THROUGH IT BACK
AND IT'S MY UNDERSTANDING THIS
STUDY OF TRAFFIC STOPS IN THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR AND I WANTED
TO GIVE A HEADS UP I THINK I AM
INFORMED THAT THE RESULTS
OF THAT STUDY WILL BE COMING
DOWN THIS WEEK.
WE HAD HOPED TO SEE IT BEFORE
BUT WE HAVE NOT BEEN WE DON'T
KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT WHAT IT'S
GOING TO WHAT THE RESULTS ARE
GOING TO BE.
AND SO WE DO NOT WE'RE NOT
PROMOTING IT.
WE'RE JUST LETTING YOU KNOW
IT'S SUPPOSED TO BE PRESENTED
TO BACK AND COUNCIL AND THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT THIS WEEK.
SO HEADS UP THAT MAY BE COMING
AND MAYBE WE'LL WANT TO TALK
ABOUT IT MORE WHEN THAT COMES
DOWN.
SO THANK YOU.
I HAVE ANY QUESTIONS I'M HAPPY
TO ANSWER THEM OTHERWISE THAT
IS ALL.
THANK YOU.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMON
RESERVE TIME PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND COMMUNITY
ABOUT MATTERS OF MUNICIPAL
INTEREST TO SPEAK AT PUBLIC
COMMENT RESERVE TIME ONE NEEDS
TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BY
CONTACTING OUR CITY CLERK.
SPEAKERS IN ALL CASES HAVE
THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO
SPEAK.
SO WHETHER HERE ARE ON LINE
PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION TO
THE TIME OUR CLERK ALL THE TIME
CLERK WILL NOTIFY YOU IN THIRTY
SECONDS REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR
TIME IS EXPIRED IN ALL CASES
WHEN YOUR TIME IS EXPIRED
PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS
AND CEDE TO THE FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
ROWAN MARRO
MAYOR.
I WAS EXPECTING MR. MARRO TO BE
IN PERSON.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MARGINE
SBSF.
HELLO ARBOR I DON'T HAVE TO
TELL YOU YOU KNOW IT.
I'M SURE TO DO THAT THIS CITY
COUNCIL DOES NOT WORK FOR THE
PUBLIC.
THEY WORK VERY CAREFULLY AND
VERY VERY VERY LONG TIME FOR
THOSE WHO CONTRIBUTE IT
CONTRIBUTE TO THEIR CAMPAIGNS.
THE NEW YOU ARE SITTING HERE
RIGHT NOW LAST YEAR NINETY
THOUSAND DOLLARS FOR CAMPAIGN
CONTRIBUTIONS IS ALREADY
SITTING HERE AND GIGGLING ALL
THE TIME.
THEY GOT THIRTY FORTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS IN CAMPAIGN
CONTRIBUTIONS.
YOU CAN BE SURE THOSE WHO GAVE
THEM HUNDREDS AND THOUSANDS
OF DOLLARS IN CAMPAIGN
CONTRIBUTIONS ARE NOT GOING TO
SIT AND WATCH AS THEY DO STUFF
TO BENEFIT US.
THEY WANT STUFF IN RETURN.
NOW I TELL YOU THEY DON'T WORK
FAST AND THEY WORK FOR THE RICH
IN THIS TOWN BECAUSE MONEY IS
SCOTT FREE HAS PAID VERY LITTLE
FOR THE CONTENT NATION MASSIVE
CONTAMINATION OF OUR WATERS.
I TELL YOU THEY WORK FOR THE
RICH AND NOT FOR US WHEN WE
KNOW FOR TWENTY THEY'VE BEEN
TALKING ABOUT IT PUMPING UP
HOUSING STILL DON'T HAVE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING YET THE
DEVELOPERS HAVE SET A NICE I
TELL YOU TO WORK FOR THE RICH
AND NOT FOR US BECAUSE AFTER I
MADE A BIG STINK ABOUT FIFTEEN
DOLLARS MINIMUM WAGE DURING THE
PAST ELECTION TIME AND
DISCUSSIONS AND AFTER THIS MESS
WITH AMERICA HERE UP AGAIN THAT
WE NEED FIFTEEN DOLLARS MINIMUM
WAGE TO NO WE STILL DON'T HAVE
FIFTEEN MINIMUM WAGE.
THEY WORK FOR THE RICH.
WE KNOW THAT THIS IS STILL A
LIMPING LITTLE DEMOCRACY.
WE CAN TAKE THEM OUT.
THIS IS STILL LIMPING LITTLE
DEMOCRACY.
WE CAN KICK THEM.
I INVITE YOU TO COME AND KICK
THEM OUT IN THIS NEXT ELECTION
CYCLE.
THEY RECORD IS ATROCIOUS.
THEY'VE GOT A LADY WHO CARES
LITTLE IF ANY FOR PALESTINIAN
HUMAN UNDERSTANDING OF HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION.
NO, SHE'S SITTING THERE AND YOU
KNOW, SAYING SAMIR TODAY THAT
KHALID CELEBI WAS MURDERED IN
PALESTINE.
HE WAS TWENTY SIX YEARS OLD AND
HAD JUST GRADUATED FROM MEDICAL
SCHOOL.
IMAGINE A MEDICAL STUDENT WHO
WAS MURDERED BY THE POLICE.
ISRAELIS ARE MURDERING
PALESTINIANS ON A DAY BASIS NOW
IT'S RAMADAN AND THE PEACE
BRINGS PEOPLE TO AL-AQSA MOSQUE
AND THEY FIGHT OPPORTUNITY TO
STOP THEIR ACCESS TO MEDICAL
AND SHOOT THEM DEAD .
I'VE BEEN ASKING ESTEEMED GROUP
IS TO SAY I'M AGAINST MILITARY
AID TO ISRAEL.
THEY DON'T HAVE THE DECENCY TO
DO THAT AND KICK THEM OUT.
THAT'S A DICTATORSHIP AND THIS
THANK YOU RESPECT FOR HIM AND
HIS OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BLAINE
COLEMAN IN CASE ANYONE IS
WONDERING WHY ARE WE DEMANDING
OUR RESOLUTION AGAINST MILITARY
AID TO ISRAEL?
HERE'S WHY ISRAEL MASSACRED
THOUSANDS OF PALESTINIAN AND
LEBANESE PEOPLE AND STOLE OUR
LAND.
ALSO ISRAEL SETS THE TONE FOR
HOW THE UNITED STATES TREATS
ARABS AND MUSLIMS WITH MASS
MURDER WITH MASS MURDER.
THAT'S HOW SO THAT BRINGS US TO
OUR DIVERSITY COUNCIL WHICH
LOVES TO PASS RESOLUTIONS ON
GLOBAL STUFF LIKE A GLOBAL
WARMING, LIKE ANIMAL RIGHTS,
LIKE GOLDFISH RIGHTS, LIKE THE
RIGHTS OF DEAR.
LOOK AT YOUR MAYOR A BIG LOUD
MOUTH FOR WHITE UKRAINIANS AT
NEVER NEVER WILL YOU SEE HIM
STAND UP FOR PALESTINIAN
RIGHTS.
HE HAS NO HEART AND ADVERSITY
COUNCIL IS THROWING ITS WEIGHT
AGAINST EVERY RESOLUTION FOR
PALESTINE RIGHTS FOR ALMOST
FORTY YEARS SINCE JANUARY
NINETEEN EIGHTY FOUR HAS THIS
CITY COUNCIL AND THIS MAYOR
EVER LOOKED AT PALESTINIANS AS
HUMAN BEINGS EVER?
YOU TELL ME AS IF THERE ARE
RULES FOR WHEN YOU GET TO SPEAK
UP FOR PALESTINIAN HUMAN RIGHTS
AND THE RULE IS NEVER THE CITY
COUNCIL MEMBER SURE SEEM TO ACT
LIKE THE RULE WAS NEVER EVER
BUT 90 PERCENT SOLUTIONS HAVE
BROKEN THAT GAG RULE.
THOSE RESOLUTION INSIST ON
PALESTINIAN HUMAN RIGHTS.
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL SAYS
ISRAEL IS COMMITTING A CRIME
OF APARTHEID AGAINST THE
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE.
HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH SAYS SO TOO.
BLACK LIVES MATTER SO TO SOUTH
AFRICA SAYS SO TOO.
AND WHAT DO YOU SAY?
NOT A BUT I'M SAYING WHILE
ISRAEL PICTURES THE PALESTINIAN
PEOPLE YOU CAN'T EVEN MAKE EYE
CONTACT ISRAEL IS APARTHEID THE
LAST STAND.
SO WHY IS ANN ARBOR CITY
COUNCIL HELPING ISRAEL TO
RELOAD TO RELOAD ISRAEL SO
DRUNK WITH AMERICAN GUNS AND
MONEY THAT ONE OF ITS HIGHEST
OFFICIALS HAS JUST SAID THERE
IS NO SUCH THING AS A
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE AND YOU SAY
NOTHING.
MALCOLM X SAID STOP TALKING
ABOUT THE SOUTH AS LONG AS
YOU'RE SOUTH OF THE CANADIAN
BORDER YOURSELF.
WELL, GUESS WHAT?
WHEN IT COMES TO PALESTINIAN
RIGHTS, THE IOWA CITY COUNCIL
IS ALWAYS S.
S EVEN THE KU KLUX AND OUR
CITY COUNCIL.
YOUR RACIST SHIP IS SINKING
FAST AND I SAY OK, YOU GO DOWN
WITH THAT SHIP AND HARBOR IN
THE WORLD WILL BE BETTER OFF
AFTER THE MURDERS.
ARE YOU OUT AFTER THE VOTERS
THROW YOU OUT?
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ZACHARY'S
STORY.
HELLO.
I JUST WANTED TO TALK TODAY
JUST SOME GENERAL THOUGHTS
HOUSING IN OUR CITY.
I WAS THINKING ABOUT I KNOW
THERE'S A PUBLIC HEARING FOR
THE PD AND IT JUST BUMS ME OUT
THAT WE HAVE TO DO ALL THESE
ONE BY ONE PROJECT THINGS TO TO
GET OUR BADLY NEEDED HOUSING IN
THE CITY AND SO I'VE ALSO BEEN
HEARING FROM A LOT OF PEOPLE
I'M JUST GETTING MORE INTO
URBAN PLANNING AND STUFF LIKE
THAT AND ASKING PEOPLE WHAT
THEIR FAVORITE CITIES ARE THAT
THEY VISITED AND STUFF LIKE
THAT AND THE MOST COMMON ANSWER
THAT I GET IS PARENTS BELIEVE
IT OR NOT AND I REALLY DON'T
HAVE A LOT OF MONEY.
I DON'T HAVE SO I'M LIKE WELL
INSTEAD OF ME TRAVELING TO
PARIS CHECKING IT OUT, WHAT IF
WE MADE ANN ARBOR MORE LIKE
PARIS AND SO WHAT WE COULD DO
IS MAYBE AIM FOR ONE MILLION
AND RESIDENCE WHICH STILL WOULD
HAVE A SIGNIFICANT LOWER
DENSITY THAN PARIS WE WOULD
NEED LIKE I BELIEVE LIKE ONE
POINT FIVE ONE POINT SIX
MILLION PEOPLE TO HAVE THE SAME
DENSITY OF PARIS BUT WE COULD
HAVE
REALLY LIVELY
NEIGHBORHOODS WITH LOTS OF I
WANT TO SEE IS A LOT OF BIGGER
APARTMENT BUILDINGS WITH FIRST
FLOOR ACTIVATED SPACE AND I
THINK WE'RE SEEING AND THE THE
CLOSED STREETS FOR THE SUMMER
REALLY WINNING A LOT OF PEOPLE
OVER THE BENEFITS OF HAVING
MORE TABLES OUTSIDE CAFES AND
RESTAURANTS AND MORE PROGRAMING
GAMES FOR KIDS, SPECIAL EVENTS
AND STUFF LIKE THAT THAT
DOESN'T HAVE TO JUST BE LIMITED
TO DOWNTOWN KNOW THERE'S OTHER
AREAS IN THE CITY WE COULD GET
OF FAMILIES THAT MAYBE DON'T
WANT TO LIVE FAR OUT FROM
DOWNTOWN AND DON'T WANT TO BIKE
RIDE ALL THE WAY THROUGH TO
DOWNTOWN OR SOMETHING IF IF
THEY HAVE ANOTHER KIND
OF ATTRACT ACTIVATED AREA
OF THE CITY CLOSER TO THEM AND
IT JUST BRINGS MORE CREATIVITY,
MORE DIFFERENT TYPES OF PEOPLE
AND IT WILL HELP THE
ENVIRONMENT YOU KNOW, WHEN WHEN
WE'RE THINKING OF OUR EIGHT TO
ZERO GOALS IT'S LIKE WHAT OR
THE ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS LIKE
BUT ANYWAYS I'LL CONTINUE THAT
TIME.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS GLENN
NELSON.
MR. NELSON, PHONE NUMBERS
ENDING IN SEVEN THREE THREE
STAR SIX ON YOUR PHONE
MR.
NELSON PHONE NUMBER ENDING IN
SEVEN THREE THREE FOUR STAR SIX
TWO ON YOUR PHONE.
GO AHEAD.
WHY DON'T I HAVE ONE OF THE
QUALITY PUBLIC SAFETY YOU GET
ALLOCATED REVENUE FROM THE
COUNTY HEALTH PUBLIC SAFETY
MALINCHE TO THE ENVIRONMENT
RESPONSE PROGRAM.
YOU APPROPRIATION FOR MILITARY
FUND 2.8 MILLION PER YEAR WOULD
BE IN ADDITION TO THE AMERICAN
RESCUE PLAN ACT FUNDING FOR
THREE POINT FIVE MILLION.
I WOULD GIVE TOO MANY THIS
WOULD BE GOOD POLICY FOR
EXPANSION UP ON THE RESPONSE
WILL BE ANOTHER STEP FORWARD IN
IMPROVING THE QUALITY LIFE IN
ANN ARBOR.
EVERYONE BENEFITS FROM LIVING
IN A COMMUNITY FOR ALL PEOPLE
FEEL THAT OTHERS CARE FOR THEM.
IN THE WORDS OF MARTIN LUTHER
KING JR. QUOTE OUR GOAL IS TO
CREATE A BELOVED COMMUNITY AND
QUOTE A BELOVED COMMUNITY
ESPECIALLY IMPORTANT TO BE ABLE
TO LIVE HERE.
YOU MENTAL HEALTH IF YOU LIVE
IN POVERTY THOSE BEARING THE
BRUNT OF RACIAL DISCRIMINATION
BACKING THE USE OF THE COLLEGE
FUNDS FOR UNARMED RESPONSE
WOULD INCREASE THE CHANCE
ELIGIBLE FOR NEW MONEY AND
PERHAPS MOST PEOPLE BELIEVE
IT'S LABELED PUBLIC HEALTH AND
PUBLIC SAFETY VALVE SHOULD BE
SPENT ON PUBLIC HEALTH AND
PUBLIC SAFETY SO THE PRESSING
FOR BETTER SERVICE EXPERIENCE
REINFORCES THE MILITANTS CAUGHT
FIRE AFTER TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
IF NOT RENEWED CERTAINLY
PLEDGED THE REPLACEMENT WILL
PROBABLY BE ON THE BALLOT IN
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR.
NOW IS THE TIME FOR CITY POLICY
MAKERS TO DEMONSTRATE THAT
FUTURE TAX REVENUE WOULD BE
USED FOR MENTAL HEALTH AND
PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES.
THANK YOU FOR OPPORTUNITY TO
PRESENT TO THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS CATHY
BORRUS CATHY BORRUS PHONE
NUMBER ENDING AND SIX FOUR FOR
BRUSSTAR SIX ON YOUR PHONE GO
AHEAD.
THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS CATHY BORITH.
I LIVE AT ONE SEVEN TO SIX
CHARLTON IN THE FIFTH WARD.
I WANT TO COMMENT ON THE ONE ON
TONIGHT'S AGENDA FOR THE PAST
15 YEARS OF THE TYPE DESCRIBED
IN THE EF1 HAVE BEEN ISSUED
THROUGH THE STATE DRINKING
WATER REVOLVING FUND PROGRAM.
THAT WAS THE CASE PROBABLY
BECAUSE THE DRINKING WATER
REVOLVING FUND PROGRAM OFFERS
NOT ONLY LOWER THAN MARK LOWER
THAN MARKET INTEREST RATES BUT
THE POTENTIAL FOR LOAN
FORGIVENESS CONSIDERING THOSE
TWO VERY IMPORTANT FACTORS, WHY
IS THE CITY NOT PLANNING TO
ISSUE THE BONDS THROUGH THE
DRINKING WATER REVOLVING FUND
PROGRAM IN THIS INSTANCE I HOPE
THERE WILL BE SOME DISCUSSION
OF THE BEFORE YOU VOTE TO
APPROVE THE PLAN WHICH IS THE
NOTICE OF THE CITY'S INTENT TO
ISSUE UP TO FORTY FIVE MILLION
DOLLARS IN WATER SUPPLY REVENUE
AGAIN I HOPE I FIND MY ANSWER
IN YOUR DISCUSSION OF DC ONE
TONIGHT.
THANK YOU.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNCIL COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH?
THANK YOU.
I WANTED TO SAY THAT THERE ARE
TWO PUBLIC MEETINGS COMING UP
WHERE YOU CAN WHERE PEOPLE CAN
OFFER THEIR FEEDBACK ON THE NEW
PROPOSED DROP OFF STATION.
THE DROPOFFS STATION IS A IT'S
A CRITICAL PART OF OUR A TWO
ZERO PLAN BECAUSE WHAT HAPPENS
THERE IS PEOPLE TAKE ON TAKE
THEIR UNWANTED MATERIALS AND
THEY GET DIVERTED, REUSED AND
RECYCLED TO A HIGHEST AND BEST
USE WHEREVER THAT'S
PRACTICABLE.
SO THE DROP OFF STATION IS A
PARTNERSHIP WITH RECYCLE AND
ARBOR AND WASHTENAW COUNTY AND
IT'S REALLY GOING TO BE AN
EXCITING AND FUN PLACE.
THE CURRENT DROP OFF STATION IS
SINKING SLOWLY INTO THE GROUND
AND THAT'S WHY WE'RE MOVING IT
AND THE STAFF WANT A VERY LARGE
GRANT TO DO THIS.
IT'S JUST THE WHOLE THING IS SO
WONDERFUL AND SO I JUST WANTED
TO KNOW THAT IN ANN ARBOR ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 13TH, WHICH IS
NEXT THURSDAY AT SIX THIRTY PM
AT THE ANN ARBOR SENIOR CENTER
IN BERN'S PARK, YOU CAN OFFER
YOUR FEEDBACK AND YOUR VISION
AND YOUR EXCITEMENT AND REALLY
YOU SHOULD BE EXCITED ABOUT THE
DROP OFF STATION EVEN IF IT
DOESN'T IMMEDIATELY RISE TO
YOUR PRIORITIES AND I MEAN
YOU'RE LIKE EVERYTHING YOU
THINK ABOUT IN THE MORNING
FIRST THING AND THEN IF YOU
WANT TO MEET IN PITTSFIELD
TOWNSHIP INSTEAD WEDNESDAY
APRIL 19TH AT SIX THIRTY PM AND
THAT'S AT THE PITTSFIELD
TOWNSHIP HALL SIXTY TWO OH ONE
WEST MICHIGAN AVENUE.
OK SO AND THEN ALSO THE CITY
HAS A NEW DASHBOARD WHERE YOU
CAN FIND OUT WHEN YOUR
NEIGHBORHOOD IS SCHEDULED FOR
STORM CLEANUP AND IT'S LOCATED
WAY TO GUARD AGAINST STORM
RESPONSE AND THAT THAT'LL BE
GREAT AND IT WILL REASSURE YOU
BECAUSE WE'RE ABOUT A THIRD
OF THE WAY THROUGH AND YOU CAN
SEE WHEN YOU'RE PICK UP IS
COMING UP COUNCIL MEMBER
QUINNELL
LAST
NAME ABDIRASHID
OR SHIFTING IN THE WASHINGTON
NATIONAL WILL BE AT HEARD ABOUT
THEM.
SO MAKE SURE THAT WE GET THOSE
WILL COME IN.
COUNCIL MEMBER, YOU'RE MAKING
BELIEVER'S OFFER.
OH, I RECEIVED WORD THAT I
COULDN'T HEAR YOU SO SURE.
AND THEN THERE IS THIS IS HOW
CAN WILL HELP IS OFFERING
POSTERS, POSTCARDS AND MAGNETS
THAT WELL PLEASE CONTACT THE TO
OF UP THE COUPLE OF HAVING A
CONSTITUENT COMMUNITY LISTENING
HOUR WORKING OUT ON APRIL 23.
THIS IS A REGULAR SCHEDULE SO
IT'LL BE AT FOUR P.M. AT THE
AT&T KELTS OVER GAZA EDWYN HI
THANK YOU.
I WANTED TO SHARE THAT COUNCIL
MEMBER WITH DENHA AND I ARE
GOING TO HAVE OUR MONTHLY
COFFEE HOUR.
IT'S GOING TO TAKE PLACE ON
APRIL 16TH AT 11:00 A.M. AT
YORK UNPACKAGED ROAD.
I ALSO WANTED TO SHARE THAT I'M
EXCITED ABOUT THE UPCOMING MAIN
STREET DOWNTOWN CLOSURE'S THERE
HAS BEEN SOME ACCESSIBILITY
ISSUES THAT I'VE BEEN TALKING
ABOUT WITH MAURA THOMPSON,
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE DENHA
AND SHE AND I ARE SUPER
COMMITTED TO MAKING SURE THAT
DOWNTOWN STREET CLOSURES ARE
STILL ACCESSIBLE FOR PEOPLE
WITH DISABILITIES AND OLDER
ADULTS.
SO THEY HAVE IDENTIFIED THREE
ADDITIONAL
UNL ACCESSIBLE
PARKING SPOTS DURING THAT TIME
AND THEY'RE THERE IN THE
PROCESS OF BEING CONVERTED.
IT'S EAST LIBERTY STREET ON
EAST WASHINGTON STREET AND
WASHINGTON STREET AND MAKE SURE
ALSO PROVIDE THIS INFORMATION
SO IT CAN BE SHARED WITH THE
PUBLIC.
THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBERS SONG.
I WANTED TO THANK YOU
ORGANIZERS FOR THEIR EXTRA
EFFORTS THE PAST COUPLE
OF WEEKS AND I'M WORKING ON THE
EVICTION CRISIS THAT WAS
LOOMING WHERE WE HAD ABOUT ONE
HUNDRED FAMILIES LIVING IN
HOTELS IN THE COUNTY WITH
FUNDING THAT WAS THAT WAS GOING
TO END ON APRIL 2ND.
THAT WAS ADVERTED.
SO THANKS TO THE COUNTY AND
COUNTY COMMISSIONERS FOR
ALLOCATING ADDITIONAL FUNDS FOR
THAT.
BUT THE QUESTION STILL REMAINS
AS TO WHAT WILL WE BE DOING
EVERY SIX MONTHS?
WHAT WILL WE BE DOING WHEN IT
GETS COLD AGAIN?
HOW MANY FAMILIES ARE AT RISK
FOR HOMELESSNESS IN OUR COUNTY?
SO I'VE ASKED COUNTY
COMMISSIONER SOMERVILLE AND
SENATOR ERWIN'S OFFICE TO WORK
ON A CONVENING.
I'D LIKE TO SEE ALL
MUNICIPALITIES IN THE COUNTY
GATHER AND TALK ABOUT THIS.
THE SCHOOLS IF YOU TALK TO ANY
SCHOOL SOCIAL WORKER WHO WORKS
ON MCKINNEY VENTO, WHICH IS A
REQUIREMENT TO
COVER TRANSPORTATION FOR
HOMELESS STUDENTS TO
PARTICIPATE IN THESE
CONVERSATIONS, WE'D HAVE A REAL
SENSE OF THE URGENCY AROUND HOW
WE NEED HOUSING FOR CHILDREN IN
OUR COMMUNITY.
TOMORROW AT 7:00 P.M. THERE'S A
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AND
REVIEW OF A PARCEL AND OR TWO
THAT'S UP FOR REVIEW.
IT'S THE GIVE THEM CREDIT UNION
PROJECT THAT IT'S A ONE STORY
BUILDING WITH A DRIVE THROUGH
NEXT TO ANOTHER BANK WHERE IT'S
A ONE STOREY BUILDING WITH A
DRIVE THROUGH COMMITTEE MEMBERS
ARE AGAINST THIS.
I MYSELF AM AGAINST THIS HOPES
IS THAT THE COMMITTEE MEMBERS
WILL COME AND GIVE PUBLIC
COMMENTS.
THE CITY IS HIRING FOR SUMMER
ACTIVITIES AND WE'VE HEARD FROM
A NUMBER OF FAMILIES WHO ARE
STRUGGLING FOR SUMMER CHILD
CARE DAYCARE.
THANKFULLY THE CITY PAYS OVER
FIFTEEN DOLLARS AN HOUR TO OUR
EMPLOYEES AND OUR NUMBER OF JOB
OPENINGS ON OUR WEBSITE.
AND THEN FINALLY I WANTED TO
ADD ONE OTHER THING ON APRIL
14TH WASHINGTON HOUSING
ALLIANCE AND THE LEAGUE OF SEE
SAYS LEGAL SERVICES OF SOUTH
CENTRAL MICHIGAN IS HOSTING AN
EVENT FOR THE EVICTION PROCESS
AND RIGHTS EVENT AT ONE THIRTY
IT'S FREE AND YOU CAN REGISTER
ONLINE OF THAT.
SO FINALLY I JUST WANT TO GIVE
MY SUPPORT FOR GEO LECTURERS
WHO ARE ON STRIKE.
I WAS A LECTURER AT THE SCHOOL
OF SOCIAL WORK AND ONLY WORKS
FOR A SEMESTER BECAUSE THE PAY
DIDN'T COVER CHILD CARE SO I
WISH THEM LUCK AS THEY TRY FOR
BETTER PAY AND A VERY EXPENSIVE
VERY VERY EXPENSIVE CITY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON, I'D LIKE
TO INVITE RESIDENTS TO MY NEXT
COFFEE HOUR SUNDAY APRIL TWENTY
THIRD FROM THREE TO FOUR PM
SWEETWATERS ON PLYMOUTH AND
GREEN.
PLEASE JOIN ME TO TALK CITY
SHOES AND ENJOY SOME COFFEE OR
TEA.
THANKS FOR THE COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL COUNCILOR BRACKMAN
.
I WANTED TO THANK EVERYONE THAT
CAME OUT TODAY TO THE ROLL OUT
EVENT FOR SPIN.
THEY ROLLED OUT THEIR NEW BIKE
SHARE PROGRAM SO WE NOW HAVE
BIKE SHARE IN THE CITY.
YOU SHOULD BE ABLE TO ACCESS IT
THROUGH THE SPIN APP AND IT WAS
JUST WONDERFUL TO SEE EVERYBODY
COMING TESTING OUT THE BIKES
AND SEEING THE CAPABILITIES
THAT ARE OFFERED BY I'D LIKE TO
GO FURTHER ESPECIALLY WITH THE
E BIKES.
SO JUST HAPPY TO LET PEOPLE
KNOW ABOUT THAT.
THANK COMMUNICATION.
I WOULD LIKE TO REQUEST
CONFIRMATION OF THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENT THAT WAS PRESENTED
TO THE CITY COUNCIL ON THE
MARCH 20TH TWENTY TWENTY THIRD
REGULAR SESSION TO THE BOARD
OF REVIEW AND HARLOW MAY THE
MOTION PLEASE MOVE BY COUNCILOR
KARZAI.
I DON'T THINK MY COUNCILOR DISH
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POST IT IS
APPROVED.
I'D LIKE TO RECOMMEND THE
FOLLOWING NOMINATION FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO THE ANN ARBOR
AREA TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY.
DR ELIZABETH GERBER MADE A
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
CONSENT AGENDA MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON DISCUSSION OF THE
CONSENT AGENDA COUNCILOR
HARRISON SIEFF FOR FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED THE
CONSENT AGENDA WITH THE
EXCEPTION K4 IS APPROVED THAT
ELEVEN COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
ALL VOTE IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
THAT SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO A
TO MAYOR YES I'M SORRY WE'VE
LOST D'ANNUNZIO OK DO WE
ANTICIPATE I THINK CITY
ATTORNEY IS GOING TO GO CHECK
IN WITH HIM RIGHT.
I'M NOT SURE WE'LL BE ABLE TO
TO SEE ANYBODY IF YOU NEED
SOMEBODY TO SPEAK ON THE ITEM
ON THE PUBLIC HEARING AND SEE
FOR OH I SEE
THE REPORT THE
LET'S UH LET'S RECONVENE AT AT
SEVEN FORTY MR YOU ARE
CONSPIRING AGAINST THE
THANK
YOU MAYOR TAYLOR.
YOU JUST WANT TO TALK A LITTLE
BIT ABOUT SUBSTANCE USE DISEASE
AND REFERENCE TO OPIOID USE AND
SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER.
IT'S IMPORTANT FOR FOLKS TO
UNDERSTAND THAT THE LANGUAGE TO
USE WHEN RELATING TO ADDICTION
IS IMPORTANT.
WORDS MATTER AND CHOOSING THE
RIGHT LANGUAGE HELPS TO
DECREASE STIGMA AND PROVIDE
COMPASSIONATE SUPPORT FOR
PERSONS WITH SUBSTANCE USE
DISORDERS AND THEIR FAMILIES
AND THE COMMUNITIES THAT
SUPPORT THEM.
CHOOSING THE RIGHT LANGUAGE
LEADS TO MORE EFFECTIVE
TREATMENT AND ENCOURAGES
PERSONS WITH A SUBSTANCE USE
DISORDER TO GET THE HELP THEY
NEED THAT THEY NEED AND DESERVE
.
MICHIGAN'S OPIOID EPIDEMIC IS
COMPLEX UNDERSTANDING.
IT REQUIRES MULTIPLE INTRICATE
AND INTERCONNECTED FACTORS THAT
HAVE PRODUCED HEALTH INEQUITIES
AND MADE ENTIRE COMMUNITIES
SUSCEPTIBLE TO ADVERSE HEALTH
OUTCOMES.
REDUCING DISPARITIES MUST BE A
FOCUS OF PROGRAMS FUNDED WITH
THE OPIOID SETTLEMENT FUNDS
INVESTING IN EVIDENCE BASED
PREVENTION INTERVENTIONS
RECOVERY SUPPORTS HARM
REDUCTION EFFORTS AND
IMPLEMENTING CRIMINAL LEGAL
REFORMS TO TRANSITION TO A LESS
PUNITIVE AND MORE HEALTH
FOCUSED APPROACH WILL ALL BE
KEY.
I AM CALLING ON THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR AND THE SURROUNDING
COMMUNITIES TO BE A LEADER IN
REDUCING STIGMA PROMOTING
RECOVERY FROM THIS DISEASE BY
TREATING ALL PEOPLE THAT SUFFER
WITH A SUBSTANCE IS DISORDER
WITH DIGNITY AND RESPECT.
AFTER ALL OPIOID USE AND
SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER IS A
CHRONIC ILLNESS AND NOT A MORAL
FAILING.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION IN
FAVOR OR OPPOSED IT IS PROVED
WE NOW COME TO A SET OF PUBLIC
HEARINGS, PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING TO SPEAK
AT A PUBLIC HEARING YOU NEED
NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE
BUT YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO
A SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING THAT IS
TO SAY THE SPECIFIC ITEM ON THE
AGENDA TO WHICH THE PUBLIC
HEARING RELATES SPEAKERS IN ALL
CASES BOTH IN PERSON AND ONLINE
WILL HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO IN EACH CONTEXT PLEASE PAY
CLOSE ATTENTION TO THE TIME OUR
CLERK OR THE TIME CLOCK WILL
NOTIFY YOU WHEN THIRTY SECONDS
ARE REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR
TIME IS EXPIRED.
IN ALL CASES WHEN YOUR TIME
EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR
PUBLIC ENEMY NUMBER ONE AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION EIGHT
FIVE TO SEVEN OF CHAPTER ONE
ZERO FIVE HOUSING CODE TITLE
EIGHT BUILDING REGULATIONS
OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR CODE .
IS THERE ANYONE WHO WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IN HOUSE A JUST LIKE TO THANK
YOU FOR CONSIDERING THIS AN AND
I THINK IT'S SOMETHING THAT'S A
NO BRAINER AND ESPECIALLY I
REMEMBER THE NEWS THERE WAS A
CARBON MONOXIDE DEATH THAT WE
HAD IN THAT COUNTY IF NOT THE
CITY.
SO TO BRING OLDER BUILDINGS TO
REQUIRE CARBON MONOXIDE
DETECTORS IS AN EXCELLENT THING
AND IT ALSO BRINGS OUR LIVES
INTO ALIGNMENT WITH STATE LAWS
WHICH IS ALSO VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU.
SO ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK THIS PUBLIC
HEARING.
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
MAYOR, WE HAVE A FEW CALLERS
ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ HI.
THIS IS ADAM DISCOVERED IN THE
FOURTH QUARTER AND I AM I WAS
REALLY GLAD TO SEE THIS ON THE
AGENDA AND I THINK AS AS THE
PREVIOUS SPEAKER SAID, IT'S A
NO BRAINER TO REQUIRE A
CARBON MONOXIDE DETECTORS.
I WAS ACTUALLY WHEN I FOUND OUT
THAT IT WAS NOT REQUIRED
ALREADY IT WAS PRETTY SHOCKING
TO ME.
SO ESPECIALLY NOW YOU CAN GET
THE ONES THAT LAST FOR YEARS
WITHOUT REPLACING ANY BATTERIES
.
LET'S JUST DO IT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
TOLERATE THE PHONE NUMBER AGAIN
FIVE THREE FOUR CRESTAR SIX.
GO AHEAD.
HELLO THIS IS ROBERT CALLING
FROM LOWERTOWN.
I'M ALIVE AND I THANK YOU FOR
YOUR THANK YOU
.
I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON THE LINE WITH THEIR HANDS UP
.
SEE NOW IN FRONT OF THIS PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED PUBLICLY NO
TO AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE REZONING OF THREE
POINT ONE THREE ACRES FROM
TOWNSHIP PARDON ME FROM
TOWNSHIP TO OUR ONE BE SINGLE
FAMILY TO PUDI PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENT NORTH MAPLE
APARTMENTS REZONING A ONE EIGHT
ONE FIVE ONE EIGHT FIVE FIVE
AND ONE EIGHT SEVEN FIVE NORTH
MAPLE AND ONE NINE TWO ONE
KELVIN STREET.
IS THERE ANYONE WHO'D LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
I
SAW I SPOKE A PREVIOUS COMMENT
SAYING THAT IT'S JUST KIND
OF FRUSTRATING THAT WE HAVE TO
DO LIKE THE ONE BY ONE PITIES
BUT I AM IN FAVOR OF THIS.
I'M GLAD THAT WE'RE GETTING A
LITTLE BIT DENSER HOUSING IN
THESE AREAS.
I WOULD LIKE WOULD LIKE TO SEE
FOR THE FUTURE IS HAVING LESS
PARKING AND MORE BUILDING AND
JUST TO KEEP IN MIND THAT WE'RE
IN QUITE A HOUSING CRISIS NOT
JUST IN THE CITY BUT NATIONWIDE
IT'S BEEN ADDED ON BY THE
PRESIDENT AND I ALSO BELIEVE
THE GOVERNOR.
SO WE JUST GOT TO KEEP HAVING
THAT AND FOCUS THAT WE'RE
BEHIND AND TRY TO SEE WHAT WE
CAN DO TO CATCH BACK UP SO
THANK YOU AND I'M EXCITED TO
SEE SOME NEW HOUSING
CONSTRUCTION.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK TO THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
PLEASE COME ON UP.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS KAREN YETTO.
I AM A MEMBER OF SIXTEEN FIFTY
KELVIN STREET.
I HAVE BEEN THERE FOR FOUR
YEARS.
MY NEIGHBORS HAVE BEEN THERE
FOR ALMOST FORTY YEARS.
THAT AREA WAS A FARMLAND MANY
MANY YEARS AGO.
WE LOVE THE AREA.
WE LOVE OUR NEIGHBOR
NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE ARE ACTUALLY
OUR OWN STYLE
TOWNSHIP RIGHT NOW AND I GUESS
ONE CONCERN I HAVE WITH
REZONING SKYSCRAPERS IN THAT
AREA WITH NO PARKING ALLOCATED
CURRENTLY THERE IS A
DEVELOPMENT BEING PLACED
TOWARDS THAT ROUNDABOUT BY N14
.
I'M CONCERNED WITH THE ACCESS
TO THOSE BECAUSE CURRENTLY
THERE'S ZERO ACCESS TO THAT
PLOT THAT BUTTS UP RIGHT UP TO
AND FOURTEEN SIXTEEN FIFTY
KELVIN STREET ROAD SO IT'D BE
INTERESTING TO SEE WHAT SORT
OF TRAFFIC PLANS HAVE BEEN LAID
OUT FOR YOU KNOW I DON'T KNOW
HOW MANY UNITS ARE GOING IN
THERE HUNDREDS WHERE ARE THEY
GOING TO PARK.
DO PEOPLE EXPECT THEM TO PARK
IN OTHER PEOPLE'S PROPERTY?
YOU KNOW I THINK THIS IS A
MAJOR, MAJOR THINGS I WOULD
LIKE TO SEE AND IN ADDITION TO
PARKING, I DON'T KNOW IF
ANYBODY'S BEEN ON THAT ROAD ON
MAPLE STREET HEADING TOWARDS
N14.
IT'S BACKED UP ALMOST A JACKSON
ROAD ALREADY.
SO WE HAVE WE HAVE ONE LANE
GOING EACH WAY SO I DON'T KNOW
IF THERE'S ANY RECOMMENDATIONS
OR PLANS TO ACTUALLY WIDEN THE
ROADS BUT YOU KNOW, IF SOMEBODY
IS EXPECTING TO PUT ONE MILLION
PEOPLE INTO A CITY THAT HAS TWO
LANE ROADS, THERE'S THERE'S A
MAJOR PROBLEM RIGHT THERE.
SO IT ALMOST IT ALMOST APPEARS
THAT THERE'S THE CART BEFORE
THE HORSE AS OPPOSED TO IT
BEING CLEARLY MAPPED OUT LIKE
WHAT IS THE TRAFFIC STUDY?
HOW MANY PEOPLE ARE GOING TO BE
ON THE ROAD?
THERE IS A THERE IS A HIGH
SCHOOL SKYLINE HIGH SCHOOL.
THERE ARE CHILDREN WALKING BACK
AND FORTH TO THAT SCHOOL
CROSSING TO ROUND BELTS TO GET
TO SCHOOL.
THERE ARE BIKE LANES
EVERYWHERE.
PEOPLE PEOPLE ARE GETTING TO
CLASSES.
THERE'S THERE'S NEIGHBORHOOD
ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS HAZILY
ABBOTT EVERYWHERE AND YOU'RE
JUST GOING TO THROW A BUNCH
OF UNITS THERE AND EXPECT JUST
EVERYTHING TO WORK ITSELF OUT.
I THINK THERE'S SOME SOME MAJOR
THINGS I WOULD LIKE TO SEE AND
I DON'T THINK IT'S JUST BECAUSE
I LIVE AT KELVIN STREET.
I DON'T WANT YOU KNOW, YOU
KNOW, THIRTY THIRTY STOREY HIGH
RISES IN MY BACKYARD AND I DO
NOT WANT THAT.
BUT I WOULD ASK YOU IF YOU
LIVED ON A BEAUTIFUL PROPERTY
FOR MANY YEARS, HOW WOULD YOU
LIKE YOU KNOW, A SKYSCRAPER
WHEN YOU WALKED OUT YOUR BACK
DOOR TO SEE THAT?
I JUST PRESUMED THAT.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC
?
GOOD EVENING TO EVERYONE IN
TOWN AS MAYOR COUNCIL MEMBERS
MY NAME IS JEFF WILKERSON AND I
AM THE DEVELOPER AND MANAGING
PARTNER OF THE NORTH MAPLE
APARTMENT PROJECT.
I'M ALSO THE FOUNDER OF TWO
COLLABORATIVE, A LOCAL DESIGN
DEVELOPMENT FIRM THAT IS
FOCUSED ON INNOVATIVE FORWARD
REACHING HOUSING SOLUTIONS THAT
INCORPORATE VARIOUS ELEMENTS
OF SUSTAINABILITY,
AFFORDABILITY AND COMMUNITY
CONNECTIVITY.
I WANTED TO TAKE THIS
OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS THE
PROPOSED PUDI REZONING SPECIFIC
TO THE PROJECT AND WHY I FEEL
THAT THIS ZONING IS APPROPRIATE
.
THE CURRENT SITE INCLUDES FOUR
LARGE PARCELS THAT WERE
PREVIOUSLY CLASSIFIED AS
TOWNSHIP AND ARE ONE.
WE COMBINE THESE PARCELS TOTAL
THREE POINT ONE THREE ACRES YET
THE CURRENT ZONING ONLY
PROVIDES FOR THREE RESIDENTIAL
HOUSING UNITS IN CONSIDERATION
THE LOCATION ALONG A MAJOR
TRANSIT CORRIDOR IN PROXIMITY
TO PARKS AND COMMUNITY
AMENITIES WITH AMPLE ACCESS TO
PUBLIC UTILITIES.
THIS IS A VASTLY UNDERUTILIZED
RESOURCE THE BEAUTY PROPOSAL
THE ZONING PROPOSAL FOR TONIGHT
ALLOWS US TO BE UTILIZED IN A
FAR MORE EFFICIENT WAY.
MOST IMPORTANTLY, THE NEW
ZONING WOULD ALLOW FOR THE
ADDITION OF SEVENTY NINE
CRITICALLY NEEDED NEW HOUSING
UNITS OF WHICH TWELVE OF THOSE
WOULD BE AFFORDED WOULD BE
ALLOCATED AS AFFORDABLE AND
PROVIDED ON SITE.
THE BUILDING CLUBHOUSE DESIGN
MAINTAINS A MODEST FOOTPRINT
AND PRESERVES NATURAL SITE
FEATURES AND OPEN SPACE
ORIENTATION TO MAPLE ROAD
ALLOWS FOR EFFICIENT
CONNECTIVITY TO PUBLIC
UTILITIES AS WELL AS ACCESS TO
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION, SETBACK
PROPOSALS AND LANDSCAPE OFFERS
WILL MINIMIZE DISRUPTION TO
CURRENT RESIDENTS BOTH DURING
AND AFTER CONSTRUCTION.
IN FACT, THE LOCATION OF THE
SITE ITSELF OFFERS A
SUBSTANTIAL BUFFER FOR CURRENT
AND ARBOR RESIDENTS IN ORDER TO
MEET THE FUTURE NEEDS OF THE
COMMUNITY.
IT IS CRITICAL THAT WE SUPPORT
A DIVERSITY OF HOUSING
OPPORTUNITIES THAT BOLSTER THE
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL WELL-BEING
OF THE CURRENT AND FUTURE
RESIDENTS.
THIS BEAUTY REZONING MEETS THE
SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES
OF THE CITY WHILE PRESERVING
AND ENHANCING ACCESS TO LOCAL
RESOURCES THAT ULTIMATELY
BENEFIT ALL MEMBERS OF THE
COMMUNITY.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE ANYONE
ELSE IN HOUSE WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE I'D LIKE
TO SPEAK THIS PUBLIC HEARING
MAYOR, WE HAVE A COUPLE
OF CALLERS ONLINE.
ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
YEAH, HI, THIS IS ADAM.
JUST GARBAGE IN THE FOURTH
QUARTER.
I'D JUST LIKE TO GET A COUPLE
OF THINGS THAT A PREVIOUS
SPEAKER MENTIONED.
FIRST OF ALL, THE THE IDEA THAT
THIS DEVELOPMENT IS 30 STOREY
SKYSCRAPERS, IT'S IT'S FOUR
STORIES WHICH IS HARDLY A
SKYSCRAPER OR A HIGH RISE OR I
I'M NOT EVEN SURE I'D CALL IT A
MID RISE.
NO PARKING HAS SIXTY FIVE
SPACES.
THERE WAS A MENTION OF HUNDREDS
OF UNITS IT'S SEVENTY NINE
UNITS ACTUALLY AND I A FEW
THINGS THAT I REALLY LIKE ABOUT
THIS DEVELOPMENT ARE I LIKE THE
IDEA OF THE DEVELOPER PUTTING
IN A BUS STOP OUT IN FRONT AND
A CROSSWALK.
I THINK THAT'S SORELY NEEDED IN
THAT LOCATION HAVING ANOTHER
CROSSWALK THERE AND I LIKE THAT
IT'S FULLY ELECTRIFIED WHICH
ONLY I KNOW WE'VE HAD A LOT
OF DISCUSSIONS AROUND THAT AS A
CITY.
SO YEAH, I THINK THIS IS A GOOD
DEVELOPMENT AND I SUPPORT IT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
CALLER WITH THE PHONE
NUMBER ENDING IN FIVE THREE
FOUR CRESTAR SIX ON ME AT YOUR
PHONE GO AHEAD.
>> HELLO THIS IS PAULA AGAIN
DOWN IN ANN ARBOR.
I WOULD LIKE A COMPLIMENT
DEVELOPMENT TEAM ON THIS
PROJECT I'VE BEEN FOLLOWING
SINCE THE INITIAL PPD MEETING.
WHAT DEVELOPER'S DONE IS
SOMETHING WE'D LIKE TO DO.
THEY STUDY WHAT THE CITY WANTS
BUT THE COMMUNITY HAS SAID IT
WANTS TO DO SUSTAINABILITY,
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND THEY
DESIGNED IT FROM THE START ME
WHEN OUR CITY SAYS IT WANTS
THEY'RE NOT LOOKING TO GET
AROUND THE RULE LIKE SOME OTHER
DEVELOPMENT THEY DESIGNED THIS
VERY INTENTIONAL MEET WHAT THEY
STUDIED AND LEARN WAS WHAT CITY
THAT I WOULD LIKE TO SEE THAT
THEY DESERVE TO BE COMPENSATED
FOR THOSE WHO DON'T KNOW I HAVE
TO GET OUT OF THE COUNTY THIS
IS WHAT WE WOULD DO.
WE GO A COMMUNITY BEFORE WE
EVEN HAD THE LAND WHERE WE
INTENDED TO DEVELOP AND WE
LEARNED WHAT THAT COMMUNITY
WOULD WANT AND WE BROUGHT IN
ALTHOUGH IT MIGHT NOT BE A TO
OTHER DEVELOPERS THAT DECIDE
WHAT THEY WANT AND TRY TO GET A
CITY OR COMMUNITY TO BEND TO
THEIR WILL THAT THEY WANT TO
LET COUNCIL THAT YOU VIEW
PEOPLE ARE WATCHING DEVELOPERS
ARE WATCHING YOUR COMPANY.
YOU ARE SENDING A MESSAGE TO
EVERY VOTE YOU MAKE.
IN THE CASE OF THE DEVELOPER IT
WAS YOU.
WELL, WHAT OUR COMMUNITY AND
SAID IT ONCE THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
MAYOR.
I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON THE LINE
CALLER WITH THE
PHONE I'M RUNNING IN ZERO THREE
NINE FOUR STAR SIX ON MEET YOUR
PHONE.
GO AHEAD.
HELLO MY NAME IS SELENA KAUFMAN
.
I LIVE IN THE ABATH
NEIGHBORHOOD NOT FAR FROM WHERE
THIS HOUSING DEVELOPMENT IS
PROPOSED AND I'M CALLING IN TO
GIVE AN ALTERNATE VIEW
OF SOMEBODY WHO VERY MUCH WANTS
MORE NEIGHBORS, MORE RESIDENCE,
MORE EVERYTHING IN MY CITY MY
HUSBAND AND I MOVED HERE OVER
TEN YEARS TO GO FROM SAN
FRANCISCO WHERE THE ISSUES WERE
THAT THEY WERE CONTINUALLY
BLOCKING NEW DEVELOPMENT, NEW
HOUSING AND IT ENDED UP BEING A
VERY BAD SITUATION FOR FAMILIES
AND FOR THE CITY AS A WHOLE.
WE CAME HERE TO ANN ARBOR
BECAUSE IT'S A WONDERFUL CITY
THAT HAS DEVELOPMENT THAT HAS
THE POTENTIAL FOR GROWTH AND I
WANT MORE NEIGHBORS IN MY
NEIGHBORHOOD.
I WANT MORE RESTAURANTS.
I WANT MORE PEOPLE WALKING
THEIR DOGS, MORE YOUNG PEOPLE
IN OUR NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH I
THINK THIS HOUSING WOULD ALLOW.
AND SO I'M SPEAKING IN FAVOR
OF THAT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU
, MAYOR.
I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON THE LINE SEE.
NO IN THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED PUBLIC YOUR NUMBER THREE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE NORTH
MAPLE APARTMENTS SITE PLAN ON
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT ONE EIGHT
ONE FIVE ONE EIGHT FIVE FIVE
AND ONE EIGHT SEVEN FIVE NORTH
MAPLE ROAD AND ONE NINE TWO ONE
KALVIN STREET IS THERE ANYONE
IN HOUSE WHO WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING?
HELLO MAYOR.
COUNCIL MEMBERS, MEMBERS OF THE
COMMUNITY IN ATTENDANCE.
I JUST LIKE TO TAKE THE NEXT
FEW MINUTES TO HIGHLIGHT SOME
OF THE MAJOR SUSTAINABILITY
DESIGN FEATURES OF THE SITE
PLAN.
FIRST AMONG THOSE IS A FULL
COMMITMENT TO ALL
ELECTRIFICATION NORTH POLE
APARTMENTS WILL BE ALL ELECTRIC
FROM DAY ONE AND WILL INCLUDE
ALL ELECTRIC ENERGY STAR
APPLIANCES AS WELL AS AN ALL
ELECTRIC SYSTEM.
REDUCED ONSITE ENERGY USAGE IS
KEY TO PRODUCING LOW
CARBON IMPACT BUILDINGS AND
EARLY DESIGN DECISIONS MUST
COMMIT TO MINIMIZING ENERGY
DEMAND.
THE NORTH MAPLE APARTMENTS WALL
AND WINDOWS SECTIONS WERE
DESIGNED TO EXCEED CURRENT
MICHIGAN BUILDING CODE AND
INCLUDE A CONTINUOUS UNBROKEN
INSULATION LAYER TO MINIMIZE
THERMAL BRIDGIT.
FURTHERMORE, THE BUILDING'S
TRIPLE PANE WINDOWS UNDERWENT
EXTENSIVE PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS
TO ENSURE MAXIMUM EFFECTIVENESS
IN AIR INFILTRATION, WATER
PENETRATION AND STRUCTURAL WIND
TESTING.
THE INCORPORATION
OF PHOTOVOLTAIC TECHNOLOGY WILL
ALLOW FOR THE ONSITE PRODUCTION
OF ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY SEVEN
MEGAWATTS OF ELECTRICITY
ANNUALLY VIA A ONE HUNDRED
TWELVE KILOWATT ROOFTOP SOLAR
ARRAY.
OUR ENERGY MODELING PROJECTS
THAT THESE PANELS SHOULD OFFSET
AS MUCH AS 15 PERCENT OF THE
BUILDING'S ANTICIPATED ANNUAL
ENERGY USAGE.
THE GEOTHERMAL DESIGN FOR THE
PROJECT HAS UNDERGONE
ENGINEERING REVIEW AND IN
COORDINATION WITH AN OPTIMIZED
THERMAL ENVELOPE WOULD MAKE USE
OF NINETEEN FIVE HUNDRED FOOT
BORINGS LOCATED PRIMARILY IN
THE COURTYARD THAT WOULD
PROVIDE ALL OF THE REQUIRED
HEATING AND COOLING NEEDS FOR
THE BUILDING ON AN ANNUAL BASIS
THE SYSTEM WOULD BE ZONED SUCH
THAT WOULD IN THE EVENT OF ONE
OF THESE ZONES BEING DISABLED
FOR MAINTENANCE OR ANY OTHER
REASON THE ENTIRETY OF THE
SYSTEM COULD STILL EFFECTIVELY
DELIVER HEATING AND COOLING
NEEDS TO THE BUILDING'S
RESIDENTS.
THE NORTH MAPLE SIRUP PLANT WAS
ALSO DESIGNED TO PROMOTE NON
VEHICULAR USAGE INCLUDING THE
PEDESTRIAN CROSSWALK ON NORTH
MAPLE THAT CONNECTS DIRECTLY TO
GARDEN HOMES PARK AND A NEWLY
PROPOSED SIDEWALK ON THE WEST
SIDE OF MAPLE WOULD FILL A MUCH
NEEDED GAP BETWEEN MAPLE GROVE
AND THE N14 INTERCHANGE ON SITE
AMENITIES ALLOW FOR EASE BIKE
STORAGE AND MAINTENANCE FOR
FUTURE RESIDENTS AS WELL AS
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION
INFRASTRUCTURE VIA A
COVERED BUS STOP.
WE ARE PROUD OF THE DESIGN AND
SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENTS
INCLUDED IN THIS PROJECT AND IS
MY HOPE THE COUNCIL WILL OFFER
ITS SUPPORT FOR THIS PROJECT.
THANK YOU.
IS ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE?
I'D LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING.
YEAH SO I JUST KIND OF WANTED
TO CALL OUT THE REALITY THAT WE
DO LIVE IN MICHIGAN AND WE DO
NEED CARS TO DRIVE TO GET
PLACES SO YOU KNOW, I DON'T
AGREE WITH NOT HAVING ENOUGH
PARKING SPOTS FOR FOR THESE
TENANTS SO I DON'T REALLY YOU
KNOW, IF EACH IF EACH UNIT HAS
LET'S SAY A COUPLE LIVING
THERE, THEY'RE EACH GOING TO
HAVE TWO CARS SO IF EACH UNIT I
MEAN I JUST THE MATH DOESN'T
ADD UP WHERE ARE THESE CARS
GOING TO GO?
YOU KNOW, IT JUST IT'S NOT
FULLY FLESHED OUT.
I THINK I THINK IT'S A GREAT
IDEA TO PUT PEOPLE IN ANN
ARBOR.
BUT YOU KNOW, IF IF THERE'S NO
WAY FOR THEM TO GET TO WHERE
THEY NEED TO GO OR PARK,
NOBODY'S GOING TO BE RIDING A
BIKE IN THE WINTER.
LET'S I MEAN LET'S BE REAL.
I LOVE RIDING MY BIKE.
I I'M ALL FOR BIKE LANES BUT TO
TO THINK THAT SOMEBODY IS NOT
GOING TO HAVE A CAR IT'S JUST
SEEMS VERY, VERY FAR FETCHED TO
ME.
SO THANK YOU
.
I JUST I JUST WANTED TO ADD
THAT I'M A PERSON THAT DOESN'T
HAVE A CAR AND I LIVE IN THE
CITY AND IS GLORIOUS.
I SAVE TENS OF THOUSAND DOLLARS
EVERY YEAR PER YEAR AND THIS
DEVELOPMENT LIKE OTHERS HAVE
SAID IS GOING INSTALL A NEW BUS
STOP AND I TAKE THE BUS IT'S I
GET AROUND THE CITY IS BECOMING
EASIER WITH THE MILLIGAN'S UP
LIKE THAT AND SO AND WHEN WE
ADD MORE PEOPLE AND GET WE'LL
HAVE MORE TAX REVENUE TO MAKE
OUR PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION AND
BIKE LANES EVEN BETTER MAYBE AT
SOME POINT WE CAN HAVE SOME
KIND OF HEATING TECHNOLOGY TO
MELT SNOW IN THE BIKE LANES IN
THE WINTER AND ESPECIALLY IF WE
OPEN UP THE CITY TO ONE MILLION
AND ARBITRATES THE SKY IS TRULY
THE LIMIT.
THANK YOU.
YEAH, MAN MAN MAN IS THERE
ANYONE ELSE IN THE HOUSE WHO'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
LUIS VASQUEZ, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT I GREETINGS IN OUR CITY
COUNCIL LUIS VASQUEZ, RESIDENT
OF UPPER LOWER TOWN VERY MUCH
IN FAVOR OF THIS DEVELOPMENT.
IT HELPS TO ALLEVIATE SOME
OF THE HOUSING CRISIS THAT WE
ARE CURRENTLY EXPERIENCING IN
ANN ARBOR.
MY ONLY COMPLAINT IS THAT I
WISH IT WERE A SKYSCRAPER.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH VERY
MUCH IN SUPPORT OF THIS
PROJECT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
ONE MORE BRANDON DEMCHUK.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
>> YEAH.
HI.
UM, BRANDON, I LIVE THE FOURTH
WARD.
I THINK THIS IS A GREAT PROJECT
OVERALL.
I HOPE ONE DAY WE WILL BE ABLE
TO GET AWAY WITH DOING LESS
PARKING THAN THIS.
BUT IT'S IT'S UM I DON'T THINK
THAT THERE IS MUCH OF A
CONCERN.
THERE ARE PEOPLE PEOPLE WHO
WANT TO HAVE THREE CARS IN AN
RV OR WHO LIVE IN THIS BUILDING
LIKE PEOPLE WHO FOR FOR THE
TYPE OF HOUSING THAT THEY NEED
.
MY WIFE AND I WENT DOWN TO ONE
CAR RECENTLY.
IT'S BEEN GREAT.
SAVED A LOT OF MONEY.
I PUT TIRES ON MY BIKE THIS
WINTER AND RODE ALL WINTER AND
YOU KNOW, THERE A LOT OF PEOPLE
WHO ARE INTERESTED IN AND
LIVING A LIFESTYLE THAT GIVES
THEM A GOOD OPPORTUNITY TO DO
SO.
SO I HOPE THAT YOU APPROVE IT
TONIGHT.
THANKS.
THANK YOU
.
I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON THE LINE WITH THEIR HANDS UP
SEEN ON THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE REGULAR
SESSION MEETING MINUTES
OF MARCH TWENTY TWENTY THREE
HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE
THESE UNITS MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER FOR DENHA
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF A1 WELL IN
FAVOR POST IT IS APPROVED B ONE
AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND CHAPTER
PART OF THE AUDIENCE TO AMEND
SECTION EIGHT FIVE TO SEVEN
OF CHAPTER ONE ZERO FIVE
HOUSING CODE OF TITLE EIGHT
BUILDING REGULATIONS OF THE ANN
ARBOR CITY CODE MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DENHA SECOND BY COUNT NO
DIRECT DISCUSSION PLEASE OF B
ONE THIS IS THIS KATSUO CANAL.
I JUST WANT TO THANK EVERYONE
WHO'S OFFERED INPUT AND I WANT
TO EXPRESS GRATITUDE AGAIN TO
THE RENTERS COMMISSION FOR
INFORMING THIS FOR ALLOWING ME
TO COME AND PRESENT THE IDEA.
I AGREE THAT IT SEEMS LIKE A NO
BRAINER TO WANT TO ADVANCE THE
SAFETY OF RENTERS IN ANN ARBOR
AND TO BRING EQUIPMENT THAT
COULD REALLY SAVE LIVES AND IS
NOT AT ALL EXPENSIVE TO INSTALL
AND TO MAINTAIN AND JUST MAKE
THAT PART OF WHAT WE DO AS A
CITY.
SO I'M REALLY PLEASED TO SEE
THIS TONIGHT AND HOPE MY
COLLEAGUES WILL BE SUPPORTIVE
FOR THE DISCUSSION DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR AND I AGREE I
THINK THIS IS A REALLY GREAT
ORDINANCE CHANGE.
I DO THINK IT'S A NO BRAINER AS
WELL BUT THAT DOESN'T MEAN THAT
IT DIDN'T COME WITH A LOT
OF HARD WORK.
AND SO I JUST WANT TO THANK THE
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL FOR
SPEARHEADING THIS AND WORKING
WITH STAFF AND ENGAGING WITH
ALL OF THE STAKEHOLDERS.
A RENTERS COMMISSION WAS VERY
EXCITED ABOUT IT WHEN THEY HAD
THE OPPORTUNITY TO WEIGH IN AND
I KNOW THAT STAFF DID A LOT
OF WORK ENGAGING WITH WITH
PROPERTY OWNERS AND LANDLORDS
AS WELL.
AND SO I THINK THIS IS A
POSITIVE CHANGE AND I JUST WANT
TO THANK EVERYONE FOR THEIR
CONTRIBUTIONS TO IT FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL BREEKS.
I JUST WANTED TO PLACE MY
SUPPORT FOR THIS AND THANK MY
COLLEAGUE COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNELL AND WORK FOR BRINGING
THIS FORWARD AND TO THE OTHER
CO-SPONSORS AND THE RENTERS
COMMISSION.
I'VE HEARD BROAD SUPPORT FROM
THIS FROM RESIDENTS AND
LANDLORDS AS WELL.
SO IT'S GREAT TO SEE AND I ALSO
WOULD LIKE TO TO THINK THAT THE
FORWARD RESIDENT THAT BROUGHT
THIS WORD TO US AND ASKED TO BE
LISTED AS A CO-SPONSOR FURTHER
DISCUSSION ECHOING THE
CONSENSUS I'M VERY EXCITED BY
THIS
BY THIS RESOLUTION, BY
THIS ORDINANCE.
IT IS A IMPORTANT PUBLIC HEALTH
CHANGE THAT WE'RE ABLE TO MAKE
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT FOR
PUBLIC HEALTH.
WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT ARE
THE MAJORITY OF OUR RESIDENTS
WHO DO INDEED RENT ARE AS SAFE
AS WE CAN HELP MAKE THEM.
AND THIS IS GOING TO BE AN
IMPORTANT STEP IN THAT
DIRECTION.
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED IT IS APPROVED B TO AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE ZONING REZONING A THREE
POINT ONE THREE ACRES FROM TDP
TOWNSHIP DISTRICT IN OUR ONE B
SINGLE FAMILY TO PUDI PLANNED
UNIT DEVELOPMENT NORTH
APARTMENTS REZONING ONE EIGHT
ONE FIVE ONE EIGHT FIVE FIVE
AND ONE EIGHT SEVEN FIVE NORTH
MAPLE AND ONE NINE TWO ONE
KALVIN STREET VISCOUNTS NO
BRIGG SIR MICHAEL SOMARE.
OUR DISCUSSION PLEASE BE TO
COUNCILOR DISH.
WE ARE ASKED JUST TO ADDRESS
THE REZONING RIGHT NOW SO I
WILL NOT TALK ABOUT THIS PLAN
BUT APPROVAL OF THIS RESOLUTION
WILL REZONE A THREE POINT ONE
THREE ACRE SITE THAT'S
CURRENTLY ZONED TOWNSHIP AND
SINGLE FAMILY RMV TO A PLANT
UNIT DEVELOPMENT AND CLEAR THE
WAY FOR ITS REDEVELOPMENT AS A
FOUR STORY SEVENTY NINE UNIT
APARTMENT BUILDING OF WHICH
TWELVE UNITS ARE REQUIRED TO BE
PERMANENTLY AFFORDABLE FOR THE
DISCUSSION WHILE FABER POSED IS
APPROVED DID ONE RESOLUTION
REQUESTING THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO ENGAGE WITH
THE MICHIGAN LEGISLATURE AND
MICHIGAN PUBLIC SERVICE
COMMISSION TO ADVANCE ENERGY
EQUITY IN RESILIENCE MOVE BY
KALTENBRUNNER GOZI EDWINS BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA MY
APOLOGIES DISCUSSION OF DC ONE
ZERO.
THANK YOU.
SO YOU KNOW THIS RESOLUTION WAS
REALLY IT'S ABOUT EQUITY AND
ENERGY JUSTICE.
I WANT TO THANK EVERYONE WHO
HELPED TO WORK ON THIS.
IT'S ABOUT HAVING BEING
ACCOUNTABLE TO RATEPAYERS TO US
AND NOT JUST THEIR SHAREHOLDERS
AND COMPENSATE FOR OUTAGES
AMONG MANY OTHER THINGS.
TWO MEETINGS AGO THIS WAS
REFERRED TO THE ENERGY
COMMISSION AND I BELIEVE THAT
THEY PROVIDED REALLY VALUABLE
INPUT THAT HELPED TO STRENGTHEN
THIS RESOLUTION.
ONE OF THEM WAS NOT ALONG TO
USE RATEPAYER MONEY FOR
LOBBYING AND THERE'S SEVERAL
OTHER THINGS THAT THAT COUNCIL
MEMBER BREAKS CAN ALSO TOUCH
UPON BECAUSE SHE WAS INVOLVED
IN THAT.
I DID ADD SOMETHING INTO THE
RESOLUTION AROUND REPORTING AND
CURRENTLY THERE'S NO REAL
PUBLIC FORUM IN WHICH REPORTS
TO US WHAT AN OUTAGE HAPPENS.
THEIR STAFF WORKS WITH OUR CITY
STAFF OR WHEN ISSUES COME UP WE
WILL WORK WITH THEIR LOBBYISTS
.
WE NEED TO HAVE A PUBLIC FORUM
IN WHICH THEY RESPOND TO OUR
ISSUES, OUR COMPLAINTS AND THEY
TELL US OUR PROGRESS OR THERE'S
NO WAY FOR US TO HOLD THEM
ACCOUNTABLE.
SO I PUT IN THAT I HOPE I ADDED
IN THAT THEY SHOULD REPORT OUT
AT ENERGY COMMISSION MEETINGS
ON A QUARTERLY BASIS AND THIS
WILL BE A CONTROLLED
ENVIRONMENT GIVEN SOME OF THESE
ADDITIONS I'D LIKE TO MAKE A
MOTION TO APPROVE THE
SUBSTITUTE RESOLUTION TO UH TO
TO AMEND THE RESOLUTION BY
SUBSTITUTING THE SUBSTITUTE
RESOLUTION WHICH IS EXACTLY
YES.
IS THERE A SECOND SAY BY
COUNCILOR BRIGGS IS THAT
FRIENDLY YOU STILL THE FOUR
THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGGS, DO YOU WANT TO ADD
ANYTHING ABOUT THE ENERGY
COMMISSION NOW?
DO I HAVE TO REVEAL YOUR YOU
CONTROL YOURSELF?
OK, THANK YOU.
AND MOVING FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER BREAKS PERHAPS
THE WINDOW INTO THE ENERGY
COMMISSION.
YES, LET ME SAY THE ENERGY
COMMISSION WAS VERY
ENTHUSIASTIC AND APPRECIATIVE
OF BEING ABLE TO REVIEW THE
RESOLUTION.
THEY DID OFFER A NUMBER
OF ADDITIONAL RECOMMENDATIONS
WHICH ARE I IN VERY MUCH IN
LINE WITH THE ITEMS THAT ARE
PUT IN HERE.
I THINK I'M NOT GOING TO REVIEW
EACH ONE OF THEM.
I'LL LET FOLKS KIND OF GO
THROUGH AND TAKE A LOOK BECAUSE
THERE'S A FAIR AMOUNT OF BULLET
POINTS IN THE RESOLUTION.
BUT I GUESS I SAY THAT THERE'S
BROAD SUPPORT FROM THE ENERGY
COMMISSION AND CERTAINLY MY
SUPPORT FOR REMOVING THE SPORT
FOR THE DISCUSSION COUNCIL
RACKMAN SO I'LL BE SUPPORTING
THIS TONIGHT.
THERE'S A LOT IN THIS IS VERY
MEATY RESOLUTION.
ONE THING I WANTED TO COMMENT
ON IN PARTICULAR WAS THE FIRST
RESOLVED CLAUSE THAT CALLS ON
THE MICHIGAN PUBLIC SERVICES
COMMISSION TO PASS LEGISLATION
TO ELIMINATE OR LIFT THE ONE
PERCENT DISTRIBUTED GENERATION
CAP TO INCREASE ENERGY
RELIABILITY CAPACITY.
WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT?
WELL, ACCORDING TO A MARCH 3RD
REPORT IN THE DETROIT NEWS ,
DTE ENERGY IS PREDICTING THAT
THEY'RE GOING TO REACH THIS ONE
PERCENT MILESTONE THIS JULY AND
THAT MEANS THAT THEY'RE GOING
TO BE ABLE TO CUT THE RATE THAT
THEY PAY FOR HOME SOLAR THAT
GOES BACK INTO THE GRID TO
CUSTOMERS WHO HAVE INSTALLED
THE PANELS THEY'RE ALLOWED TO
DO THIS.
THEY'RE ALLOWED TO CAP THEIR
PARTICIPATION AND DISTRIBUTED
GENERATION AND THAT AMOUNT IS
ONE PERCENT RIGHT NOW
OF AVERAGE PEAK LOAD YOU THE
IMPACT THAT THIS HAS, IT MAKES
IT HARDER FOR PEOPLE TO PAY OFF
THEIR HOME SOLAR SYSTEM.
IT HURTS BUSINESSES THAT ARE
DOING SOLAR INSTALLATION.
ALL OF THE THINGS THAT WE WANT
TO ENCOURAGE IT BASICALLY JUST
INCENTIVIZES IRONICALLY ENOUGH
,DTD FINALLY ON THIS MATTER
CAME SIX DAYS BEFORE THE ICE
STORM THAT KNOCKED OUT POWER TO
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS
OF CUSTOMERS SOMETHING THAT BY
THE WAY RESIDENTS AT SOLAR WITH
A BATTERY BACKUP WERE ACTUALLY
ABLE TO BEAR.
AND SO WHAT THEY'RE BASICALLY
PROPOSING RIGHT NOW THEY PAY
BETWEEN NINE AND 15 CENTS PER
KILOWATT HOUR WHEN YOU GIVE
ENERGY BACK INTO THE GRID AND
ARE PROPOSING THAT ONCE THIS
LIMIT IS REACHED THEY PAY THREE
TO FOUR CENTS PER KILOWATT HOUR
.
SO IN OTHER WORDS, A QUARTER
OF WHAT THEY ARE PAYING RIGHT
NOW, THE ONE PERCENT NUMBER IS
ARBITRARY THAT GOES AGAINST OUR
GOALS AND IT NEEDS TO GO AWAY.
SO IT'S A FAIR SYSTEM FOR
PAYING FOLKS FOR THE EXCESS
ENERGY THAT THEY ARE
GENERATING.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION.
I'M SORRY COUNCILMAN.
YOU KNOW THE ONE THING THAT I
THINK WE KEEP FORGETTING TO
CONSIDER IS THE IMPACT THE
STORM HAS HAD ON OUR COMMUNITY
WHEN IT COMES TO SOCIAL SERVICE
AGENCIES WHO'VE HAD TO DIG DEEP
OUT OF SLIM BUDGETS ALREADY TO
ASSIST COMMUNITY MEMBERS.
THREE ACTION NETWORK HAD TO
HAVE AN EMERGENCY FOOD PANTRY
GIVE OUT ABOUT FIVE THOUSAND
DOLLARS IN GROCERY GIFT CARDS.
PEOPLE CAME UP WITH CAME AND
DONATED I THINK DTD TO VAN WITH
FLASHLIGHTS AND BLANKETS TO THE
MALL YOU KNOW SNAP BENEFITS
THAT WERE INCREASE DURING THE
PANDEMIC ENDED ON MARCH 1ST
WHEN FOLKS HAD TO THROW AWAY
FOOD FORMULA.
YOU KNOW, EVEN IF YOU HAVE WYK
WITH WOMEN AND CHILDREN, YOU
KNOW, FOOD THAT WENT BAD, YOU
KNOW, WE'VE HEARD FROM
RESIDENTS IN MORE TO WHO A
SINGLE LOW-INCOME SINGLE MOM
WHOSE MOTHER IS DYING OF CANCER
AND COULDN'T AFFORD TO PAY FOR
TREATED LIKE ALL OF TREE
BRANCHES WOULD BE REMOVED IN
HER BACKYARD TO REMOVE THE THE
BRANCHES BY THE LINES BUT THE
REMAINDER REALLY GLAD COMMITTEE
MEMBERS VOLUNTEERED AND HELPED
CLEAR THAT.
BUT I THINK THE DEVASTATION IS
REALLY HARD ON FOLKS WHO ONE
DON'T KNOW THAT WE EXIST HERE
IN CITY COUNCIL AND YOU KNOW,
TRY TO FIGURE OUT LIKE HOW WE
CAN HELP AS INDIVIDUAL COUNCIL
MEMBERS OR INFLUENCE.
I KNOW IT'S HARD TO FIGURE OUT
WHAT SERVICES ARE AVAILABLE FOR
PEOPLE WHO ARE IN CRISIS AND AT
THE VERY BARE MINIMUM TO HAVE A
STATEMENT TO DID AND SAY LIKE
NOT ONLY HAS THIS IMPACTED OUR
CITY BUDGET, IT IMPACTS SOCIAL
SERVICE AGENCIES AND IMPACTS
INDIVIDUALS, IMPACTS FAMILIES
WHO ARE COMING OUT OF PANDEMIC
AND THESE EXTRA COSTS REALLY,
REALLY HURT FAMILIES AT THE
VERY LEAST THEY SHOULD LISTEN
AND HOPEFULLY THEY'LL HAVE A
BETTER RESPONSE AHEAD OF AHEAD
OF DISASTERS.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
ALL FAVOR POSED.
IT IS APPROVED DC ONE
RESOLUTION TO SUPPORT
POLLINATOR HABITAT IN ANN ARBOR
MOVE BY COUNCIL BRACKMAN
SECRETARY COUNTERPROTEST
DISCUSSION OF DC ONE KAZMIR
AKMAN.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I'M HAPPY TO BE BRINGING THIS
RESOLUTION FORWARD FROM THE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION AND I
WANTED TO SAY A FEW WORDS ABOUT
WHY SUPPORTING POLLINATOR
HABITAT IS SO IMPORTANT.
BEES AND OTHER POLLINATORS
TOUCH OUR LIVES EVERY DAY IN
WAYS THAT WE PROBABLY DON'T
REALIZE OR WE TAKE FOR GRANTED.
FOR EXAMPLE, THEY'RE
RESPONSIBLE FOR AS MUCH AS A
THIRD OF THE FOOD THAT WE
CONSUME.
SO A WORLD WITHOUT THEM IS ONE
IN WHICH WE HAVE FEWER FOOD
CHOICES AND THE ONES THAT WE
HAVE HAVE LESS NUTRITION
POLLINATOR POPULATIONS ARE IN
DECLINE AROUND THE WORLD DUE TO
HABITAT LOSS, ALTERATION,
FRAGMENTATION AS WELL AS
PESTICIDES.
THE STATE OF MICHIGAN ALONE HAS
SEEN A SIXTY ONE PERCENT DROP
IN ITS BEE POPULATION AND OVER
THE SPAN OF 15 YEARS.
SO THIS IS REALLY IMPORTANT
THAT WE ALL ACT IN WAYS THAT WE
CAN TO PROTECT POLLINATORS.
THE ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION
PASSED THIS RESOLUTION AT THEIR
LAST MEETING WHICH WAS JUST I
THINK A WEEK AGO.
THIS IS AN EVOLUTION
OF SOMETHING THAT I THINK
PROBABLY EVERYONE REMEMBERS
FROM LAST YEAR WHICH WAS NOMO
MAY THAT THEY PASSED FOR TWENTY
TWENTY TWO.
I KNOW THAT A LOT OF MY
NEIGHBORS PARTICIPATED IN THIS
AND GOT EXCITED ABOUT IT AND
ALLOWED EMERGENCE OF MATURATION
OF POLLINATORS THAT OVERWINTER
IN OUR YARDS.
WE DID LEARN SOME THINGS FROM
THAT EFFORT NAMELY THAT
DEPENDING ON THE RAIN WE
PROBABLY DON'T NEED TO
LITERALLY START MOWING THE LAWN
FOR THE ENTIRE MONTH
.
THERE WERE SOME QUITE, QUITE
LONG LAWNS OUT THERE BUT ALSO
WE LEARNED THAT THERE WAS A LOT
OF RESIDENT INTEREST AND SO THE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION WAS
LOOKING AT THIS AND TRYING TO
THINK OF A WAY I'M A
MONOCULTURE OF TURF GRASS
THAT'S REALLY LONG IS IT
ULTIMATELY WHAT WE'RE GOING
FOR?
IT'S A START BUT I THINK
CONCENTRATING ON WHAT WE CAN DO
YEAR ROUND AND THE PRACTICES
THAT WILL ACTUALLY CREATE
HABITATS ARE AMENABLE TO
POLLINATORS WAS REALLY THE
FOCUS OF WHAT YOU SEE IN FRONT
OF YOU.
SO ENCOURAGING RESIDENTS TO
REDUCE MOWING ESPECIALLY THE
SPRING REDUCING LEAF CLEANUP AS
WELL AS HAVING DIVERSE NATIVE
PLANTINGS.
SO IN OTHER WORDS CONSIDER
ALTERNATIVES TO TURF GRASS SO
YOU'LL NOTICE THAT THIS
RESOLUTION TALKS ABOUT A
COMMUNICATION PLAN.
I THINK THE ENVIRONMENTAL
COMMISSION IS EAGER TO WORK
WITH STAFF ON DIFFERENT
SEASONAL CAMPAIGN SUCH AS A
SPRING EMPHASIZING THE MOWING
FREQUENCY.
I DID WANT TO NOTE THAT
EVERYTHING THAT IS IN HERE
COMPLIES WITH OUR CURRENT
ORDINANCES SO THERE'S NOTHING
THAT HAS TO BE AN EXCEPTION.
I LIMITERS TWELVE INCHES FOR
GRASS SO I GUESS THAT'S IT FOR
THE DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED.
IT IS APPROVED DC TWO
RESOLUTION TO RATIFY AN
EMERGENCY SOURCE PURCHASE ORDER
WITH THE DAVIT TREE EXPERTS
COMPANY D'HAITI FOR BRANCH
COLLECTION THE AMOUNT OF TWENTY
TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS AND INCREASE THE
PURCHASE ORDER OF AMOUNT TWO
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS FOR TO
BE CLEANUP RELATED TO THE
FEBRUARY TWENTY TWO AND MARCH
THREE TWENTY TWENTY THREE ICE
AND SNOW STORMS AND TO
APPROPRIATE THE NECESSARY
FUNDING FOUR HUNDRED AND FIFTY
THOUSAND DOLLARS MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC TO I FOR MY PART I
AM DELIGHTED THAT WE ARE
BRINGING THIS FORWARD HERE
TODAY AS FOLKS KNOW THROUGHOUT
THE CITY WE HAD A MASSIVE SNOW
AND ICE STORM.
THERE ARE SNOW AND ICE STORMS
WHICH RESULTED IN LIMB AND TREE
FALL THROUGHOUT OUR COMMUNITY.
SOME OF THE TREE FALLS
OF COURSE AND LIMBS WERE REAR
CITY TREES OWNED BY THE CITY ON
THE RIGHT AWAY.
BUT THERE ARE ALSO LIMITED TREE
FALLS THROUGHOUT RESIDENTS
PROPERTIES WITHOUT REGARD TO
WHETHER THE TREES OR CITY TREES
ARE THE PERSONAL PROPERTY
OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
THE CITY IS EXCITED TO HELP
RESIDENTS THROUGHOUT THE
COMMUNITY IN CLEANING UP THESE
TREE BRANCHES AND SO WE HAVE
OFFERED THIS FREE AND AND
FOLLOW ON SERVICE TO RESIDENTS
TO PICK UP STREET TREES
THROUGHOUT THE COMMUNITY AND
OF COURSE COSTS A FAIR BIT
OF COIN BECAUSE WE ARE
REQUIRING CONTRACTING FOLKS WHO
ARE NOT NOT PRESENTLY CITY
EMPLOYEES TO PICK UP HUNDREDS
OF TONS OF TREES THAT WE WERE
NOT ANTICIPATING THAT WERE NOT
IN OUR PRIOR WORK PLAN.
THIS IS A SERVICE THAT I KNOW
WE ARE WE ARE ROLLING OUT WE'RE
ROLLING TO BE RESPONSIVE TO A
UNFPA'S COMMUNITY NEED AND WE
ARE ALSO OBSERVING THAT THIS IS
SOMETHING WHICH HAS HAPPENED
AND I SUSPECT WILL HAPPEN IN
THE FUTURE.
AND SO, YOU KNOW, EVEN AS WE
ARE RESPONDING TO THIS ON THE
IMMEDIATE WE ARE I'M I HAVE
CONFIDENCE LOOKING FORWARD TO
SEE HOW WE CAN PLAN TO ENGAGE A
SIMILAR OR EVEN MORE IMPACTFUL
EVENT IN YEARS TO COME.
FURTHER DISCUSSION.
I'M SORRY I JUST HAD A QUESTION
.
I'M NOT SURE IF CITY
ADMINISTRATOR COULD ANSWER THIS
BUT I NOTICE THAT THE TOTAL I
THINK IS FOUR HUNDRED AND FIFTY
THOUSAND AND I THE LAST MEETING
YOU SAID IT WAS QUITE A BIT
MORE SO DOES THIS REFLECT WHAT
WE THINK IT'S ULTIMATELY GOING
TO COST OR ARE THERE
POTENTIALLY DO WE NOT QUITE
KNOW MR STIGLITZ IS AVAILABLE?
WE INDICATED A HIGHER NUMBER
AND WE'RE IF WE NEED TO COME
BACK FOR MORE WE WILL DO THAT.
BUT THIS KEEPS US MOVING.
BUT MR. STIGLITZ, HE WANTS TO
ANSWER ANY FURTHER.
I THINK I THINK YOU ANSWERED IT
HOW I WOULD ANSWER THAT IS
WHERE YOU KNOW THIS PRETTY
DYNAMIC WE'RE ABOUT A THIRD
OF THE WAY THROUGH THE CITY
RIGHT NOW.
WE KNOW TO GET INTO NEW
NEIGHBORHOODS IT'S HARD TO KNOW
IT'S NOT IT HASN'T HIT THE
WHOLE CITY EQUALLY.
SO WE'RE CONTINUING TO EVALUATE
AS WE MOVE THROUGH THE CITY
WE'LL PROBABLY HAVE BETTER
INFORMATION ON WHAT WE
ANTICIPATE THE FULL COST TO BE
IN A FEW MORE WEEKS.
THANK THANK YOU FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
YES, THAT'S MY THANK YOU.
IN THE MEMO IT SAID THAT THE
ENTIRETY OF THE CLEANUP WILL
NOT BE COMPLETE WITH THESE
FUNDS AND I'M WONDERING IF MR.
STEIGLITZ OR MR. DARNAY COULD
GIVE SORT OF A PICTURE AS TO
WHAT THAT LOOKS LIKE TO GET US
ACROSS THE FINISH LINE THERE
AGAIN, I THINK IT'S GOING TO
TAKE US A FEW MORE WEEKS.
WE'RE WE'RE RAMPING UP OUR
SERVICES OVER THE COURSE
OF THIS WEEK.
WE'RE ALSO GOING TO BE ABLE TO
AUGMENT SOME OF THE WORK BY
USING SOME CITY STAFF SO WE MAY
BE ABLE TO OFFSET SOME OF THE
CONTRACTOR COSTS ASSOCIATED
ASSOCIATED THE UP BY UTILIZING
CITY STAFF TO HELP COMPLETE THE
WORK.
SO I THINK WE'LL HAVE MORE
INFORMATION IN A FEW WEEKS.
BUT AT THIS POINT THIS IS THIS
IS THE BEST INFORMATION WE HAVE
.
I GUESS WE'RE OPTIMISTIC THAT
WE'LL BE ABLE TO MAKE PRETTY
GOOD HEADWAY FUNDS THAT ARE BE
ALLOCATED TO THIS RESOLUTION
TONIGHT.
FURTHER DISCUSSION, ALL FAVOR
POSED.
IT IS APPROVED.
ELEVEN COUNCILMEN AS MEMBERS
PRESENT ALL VOTED IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE THAT SATISFYING THE
EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT DB2
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE NORTH
MAPLE PARCHMENTS SITE PLAN
ENVELOPMENT AGREEMENT 1815
EIGHTEEN FIFTY FIVE 1875 NORTH
MAPLE ROAD AND NINETEEN TWENTY
ONE KELVIN STREET MOVI COUNCIL
MEMBER SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER CORNELL DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DB2 COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
SO IT IS WELCOME TO SEE A
PROJECT THAT HITS JUST ABOUT
ALL OF THE CITY'S MAJOR
PRIORITY INITIATIVES
SUSTAINABILITY, AFFORDABILITY
AND GREATER DENSITY WHERE THERE
IS INFRASTRUCTURE TO SUPPORT
IT.
THE SITE LOCATION ABUTS AN OFF
RAMP FOR N14 AND AN EXISTING
DOUBLE LANE URBAN ROUNDABOUT
AND IT LIES ON MAPLE ROAD, A
MAJOR TRANSIT CORRIDOR THAT
WELL SERVED BY BUSSES.
THE SITE PLAN PROPOSES A FOUR
STORY SEVENTY NINE UNIT
APARTMENT BUILDING IN A SINGLE
STORY CLUBHOUSE THERE'S GOING
TO BE A MIX OF FIFTEEN STUDIOS'
FORTY EIGHT ONE BEDROOM
APARTMENTS AND SIXTEEN TWO
BEDROOM APARTMENT.
SO THAT'S NICE DIVERSITY WITHIN
THE PROJECT.
AS FOR SUSTAINABILITY WE'VE
HEARD A LOT ABOUT THAT BUT I
WILL JUST ASSURE YOU THAT THE
DEREGULATION'S STIPULATE SO
THIS IS WHAT THE ZONING CALLS
FOR AND EVEN IF THIS PROJECT
WERE NOT TO HAPPEN FOR SOME
REASON WHICH I HAVE NO REASON
TO THINK THAT IT WOULD BUT THIS
IS WHAT THIS CASTLE WILL BE
ZONED FOR.
IT STIPULATES THE DEVELOPMENT
WILL BE ALL ELECTRIC EQUIPPED
WITH SOLAR PANELS AND BATTERIES
TO OFFSET FIFTEEN PERCENT
OF ITS ANNUAL ENERGY USE.
IT WILL BE INSULATED ABOVE
BUILDING CODE REQUIREMENT TO
MINIMIZE HEAT LOSS AND MAXIMIZE
THE PANELS EFFECTIVENESS.
THE DEVELOPER DESCRIBED THE
DESIGN OF THE GEOTHERMAL
HEATING THAT WAS NICE.
IT WILL ALSO BE EQUIPPED WITH
HIGH EFFICIENCY LED LIGHTING
ENERGY STAR APPLIANCES AND
OPERABLE OPERABLE TRIPLE PANE
WINDOWS WHICH IS GREAT.
THE PROJECT SUPPORTS
ALTERNATIVE TRANSPORTATION AS
WE'VE SPOKEN THERE WILL BE
SIXTY FIVE PARKING SPACES OFF
STREET FOR SEVENTY NINE UNITS
AND THE IDEA HERE ISN'T TO MAKE
PEOPLE GET RID OF ALL THEIR
CARS BUT LET'S MAKE IT EASIER
STEP BY STEP FOR PEOPLE TO
DRIVE LESS AND ONE GREAT STEP
IS TO TAKE THE BUS TO WORK AND
BACK.
THE PROJECT IS WELL SITUATED TO
FACILITATE SUCH A STEP SO WE'VE
HEARD ABOUT AFFORDABILITY.
THE DEVELOPER IS REQUIRED TO
PROVIDE FIFTEEN PERCENT
PERMANENTLY AFFORDABLE HOUSING
UNITS ON SITE THAT WOULD BE
TWELVE UNITS TOTAL FOR BY
PAYMENT IN LIEU.
THERE'S A FORMULA THAT THAT IS
USED TO SAY EXACTLY WHAT THAT
WOULD MEAN.
WE WILL ALSO SEE ADDITIONAL
REQUIRED PUBLIC BENEFITS SUCH
AS A REFUGE ISLAND TO BE
PROVIDED IN NORTH MAKE MAPLE
ROAD WHICH IS WIDE PRESERVATION
OF WETLANDS STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT AND A FIFTY ONE
THOUSAND DOLLAR CONTRIBUTION TO
THE PARKS FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL ROSOL SO IF YOU TAKE A
LOOK A BIT FARTHER DOWN THE
ROAD AT HARKAWAY APARTMENTS
YOU'LL NOTE THAT IT'S ABOUT A
SIMILAR SIZE THREE STORIES
SIMILAR SIZE OF EIGHTY FOUR
UNITS.
WE HAVE A NUMBER OF THEM AT 60
PERCENT MY I FEEL LIKE THIS NEW
PROJECT WILL CONTRIBUTE TO THAT
ENHANCE OUR EXISTING WORK.
LOOKING BACK THROUGH THE
REGISTER WE DID A REZONING FOR
THE PARCEL BY HICKORY WAY THE
SOUTH APARTMENTS WE MEANING
CITY COUNCIL BACK IN TWENTY
SEVENTEEN AVALON WAS ABLE TO
GET TAX CREDITS FROM MR IN 2018
AND ONLY JUST LAST YEAR WE HAD
A GROUNDBREAKING FOR THE SECOND
PHASE OF THE DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT.
RIGHT SO IF WE'RE LOOKING AT
THE TIMELINE FROM TWENTY
SEVENTEEN TO TWENTY TWENTY TWO
TO GET TO A POINT WHERE WE
WHERE WE HAVE ABOUT SEVENTY
UNITS THAT'S A LONG TIMELINE
AND NOW WE HAVE A PROJECT IN
FRONT OF US THAT NOT ONLY HELPS
US MAYBE TIGHTEN THAT TIMELINE
A LITTLE BIT BUT ADD TO OUR
MUCH NEEDED HOUSING STOCK FOR
COMMUNITY AT 60 PERCENT AM I IN
FOR FOLKS WHO ARE FOLLOWING
THAT'S ABOUT SIXTY A YEAR FOR
FOUR PERSON HOUSEHOLD IN ANN
ARBOR 100K A YEAR IS THE
AVERAGE ALLAI THIS IS NEEDED
HOUSING.
IT NEEDS IT MEETS NEEDS ALONG A
TRANSIT CORRIDOR SO THAT WE
WON'T BE CONTRIBUTING TO MORE
TRAFFIC, MORE COMMUTER TRAFFIC
AND IT'S ACROSS IT'S NEARBY A
HIGH SCHOOL POPULAR HIGH SCHOOL
WE APPROVED A DEVELOPMENT BY
PIONEER HIGH SCHOOL NOT TOO
LONG AGO A MUCH LARGER
DEVELOPMENT ACROSS PIONEER.
SO I THINK THIS WORK IS IN LINE
WITH WHAT WE'VE
BEEN DOING FOR
AT LEAST THE PAST FIVE YEARS.
WELL, FOR MANY OF US IN COUNCIL
AND AS FAR AS I KNOW THE WAY
APARTMENTS AVALON HOUSING HAS
NOT BEEN DISRUPTIVE TO
COMMUNITY MEMBERS AND I HOPE
THE CONVERSATION CHANGES FROM I
WAS HERE FIRST AND I GET TO
DECIDE WHO MY NEIGHBORS ARE TO
I WELCOME MORE NEIGHBORS
BECAUSE I WANT OTHERS TO
EXPERIENCE THE SAME BENEFITS
AND THAT OUR NEIGHBOR INCOMING
NEIGHBORS ARE HERE FOR THE
EXACT SAME REASONS THAT FOLKS
ARE HERE FOR SCHOOL WORK.
I HOPE THAT WE HAVE A NICE
WELCOME WAGON FOR THEM AT IS
OPENING AND COME
GROUNDBREAKING.
I EXPECT ALL OF US TO BE THERE
AS WELL AS NEIGHBORS.
THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS
.
I'M NOT GOING TO GO THROUGH ALL
THE GOOD ATTRIBUTES OF THIS
PROJECT BECAUSE WE'VE WE'VE
HEARD THEM ALL NOW A COUPLE
OF TIMES.
I JUST WILL REITERATE HOW
SUPPORTIVE I AM OF SEEING THIS
DEVELOPMENT MOVE FORWARD.
THE DEVELOPMENT TEAM HAS BEEN
WONDERFUL IN TERMS OF WORKING
WITH THE COMMUNITY, WORKING
WITH RESIDENTS, WORKING TO MAKE
SURE THAT COUNCIL MEMBERS
UNDERSTAND WHAT'S WHAT'S COMING
.
I HAVE HEARD I'VE ONLY HEARD
POSITIVE THINGS ABOUT THIS
PROJECT.
I'M UNTIL THIS EVENING AND ONLY
PROJECT THINGS POSITIVE THINGS
FROM RESIDENTS IN THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR.
SO I AM YOU KNOW, THIS IS THE
TYPE OF DEVELOPMENT THAT WE
NEED TO SEE MORE OF AND THE
TYPE IN CITY IT'S SUSTAINABLE.
IT IS HAS A GOOD MIX OF OF
HOUSING OF UNIT TYPES WITHIN IT
THERE'S A AFFORDABLE HOUSING
CONTAINED WITHIN IT.
IT'S ALONG OUR TRANSIT
CORRIDORS.
IT REPRESENTS A NICE GENTLE
DENSITY IN IN A IN A PROXIMITY
TO WHERE PEOPLE CAN SHOP WORK,
GO TO SCHOOL SO IT'S I'M VERY
EXCITED TO SUPPORT THIS TONIGHT
US OVER HERE.
THANK YOU.
JUST BRIEFLY I THIS IS EXACTLY
THE TYPE OF PROJECT THAT I'M
EXCITED TO APPROVE.
I REALLY APPRECIATE THE WORK
THAT'S GONE INTO THIS AND YOU
KNOW, I THINK AGAIN LIKE
COUNCIL MEMBER BRAKES I'VE ONLY
HEARD POSITIVE THINGS UNTIL
TONIGHT.
I THINK THE YOU KNOW, THE
NEGATIVE THINGS THAT WE HEARD
WERE BASED ON SOME VERY SERIOUS
MISCONCEPTIONS ABOUT WHAT THIS
PROJECT IS.
SO YOU KNOW, NOT ONLY DO I YOU
KNOW, WILL I BE
ENTHUSIASTICALLY APPROVING THIS
BUT YOU KNOW, IT REALLY MAKES
ME THINK, YOU KNOW, WHEN WE
HAVE A PROJECT LIKE THIS COME
FORWARD AND THAT STANDS IN
CONTRAST TO SOME OTHER
DEVELOPMENTS THAT COME FORWARD
WHERE THE DEVELOPER SAYS, OH,
WE CAN'T MAKE IT FULLY
ELECTRIC.
YOU KNOW, I WOULD JUST I WOULD
LOVE TO FIND A WAY FOR FOUR
DEVELOPERS IN THE CITY TO BE
SHARING INFORMATION ABOUT HOW
THEY GET THERE.
SO I JUST JUST PLANT THAT SEED
AND AGAIN, THANK YOU FOR YOUR
WORK ON THIS AND I'LL AGAIN BE
ENTHUSIASTICALLY SUPPORTING
THIS TONIGHT OR THE DISCUSSION
OR FAVOR OF IT IS APPROVED.
YES.
ONE RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING
PUBLICATION OF NOTICE OF INTENT
TO ISSUE REVENUE BONDS AND
REIMBURSEMENT OF CERTAIN
EXPENSES THE AMOUNT OF FORTY
FIVE MILLION DOLLARS MOVED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH SECOND BY
COUNCILOR WATSON DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC ONE COUNCIL MEMBER
BRAKE'S I ASK FOR A BRIEF STAFF
INTRO ON THIS
.
THIS POSITION WILL BE JOINING
US ON ZOOME
ALREADY.
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU HEARD WE
WERE LOOKING FOR A STAFF
INTRODUCTION.
I AM SORRY I DID NOT RECEIVE A
STAFF INTRODUCTION QUESTION
REGARDING THIS ISSUE SO IF YOU
COULD JUST REPEAT THE QUESTION
FOR ME I'D APPRECIATE IT KILLS
MAVERICKS.
SURE.
BASICALLY I WAS JUST HOPING YOU
COULD PROVIDE A LITTLE BIT MORE
DESCRIBE A LITTLE BIT MORE.
YOU KNOW WHAT THESE BONDS ARE.
I KNOW THIS IS STEP ONE OF TWO
STEP PROCESS.
JUST PROVIDE A LITTLE BIT MORE
INFORMATION FOR THE COMMUNITY
ABOUT HOW THIS WORKS.
AND I THINK WE WE HAD A
QUESTION THAT WAS RAISED DURING
PUBLIC COMMENT AS WELL THAT
MAYBE YOU COULD HIT ON IT AS
WELL IN TERMS OF IS ARE WE
APPROACHING THIS DIFFERENTLY
THAN THAN WE HAD IN THE PAST?
AND THEN FINALLY IF YOU COULD
JUST TALK TO THE MEMOS NOT
EXPLICIT ABOUT, YOU KNOW, WHAT
THESE FUNDS ARE GOING TO BE
USED FOR CERTAIN THE PUBLIC
SERVICES AREA HAS A ROBUST
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN IN
THE WATER FUND SCHEDULED FOR
THE NEXT FISCAL YEAR THAT TOTAL
IN EXCESS OF SIXTY TWO MILLION
.
WE WILL BE SEEKING TO FUND A
PORTION OF THOSE PROJECTS BY
ISSUING STANDARD REVENUE BONDS
THAT WILL BE PAID BACK OVER A
PERIOD OF TWENTY TO THIRTY
YEARS FOR THOSE CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENTS.
THIS WOULD BE THE FIRST STEP IN
THAT PROCESS OF ISSUING THOSE
FUNDS AND THIS IS ACTUALLY
QUITE A NORMAL PROCESS FOR
FUNDING SIGNIFICANT CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
.
THANK YOU FOR COUNCIL MEMBER
BRISTOL DISH THAT ONE I JUST
WANTED TO RISK A LITTLE BIT.
SO IS THIS FOR FOR IN PART THE
WATER TREATMENT PLANT REDO OR
NO THIS ISSUANCE IS MOSTLY TO
FUND DISTRIBUTION PROJECTS,
SEVERAL DISTRIBUTION PROJECTS.
AS A MATTER OF FACT WHEN WE GET
TO THE POINT WHERE WE ARE READY
TO TAKE ON THE WATER TREATMENT
FACILITY, WE WILL BE LIKELY
USING AN ALTERNATIVE METHOD FOR
AVAILABLE FEDERAL PROGRAMS FOR
THAT PROJECT
.
SO SO MY DISTRIBUTION PROJECTS
WOULD THAT MEAN ARE WE BUILDING
NEW INFRASTRUCTURE, REPLACING
IT'S REPLACING EXISTING
INFRASTRUCTURE SO THAT
BASICALLY MEANS PIPES IN THE
GROUND REPLACING INFRASTRUCTURE
UNDERGROUND FOR THE DISCUSSION
BRINGS SOMEONE TO THINK COUNCIL
MEMBER JUST FOR ASKING THAT
QUESTION BECAUSE I ACTUALLY HAD
MISINTERPRETED THE MEMO
INCORRECTLY.
SO THAT WAS VERY HELPFUL FOR ME
IN TERMS OF HOW THESE FUNDS ARE
GOING TO BE USED FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
ROLL CALL VOTE PLEASE.
STARTING WITH COUNCILOR
MCCONNELL.
YES, I FIGURED I HAD A GOOD
ANSWER.
CORNELL YES COUNCILOR DID.
YES, BECAUSE FOR HARRISON YES.
CASPERSON YES.
BECAUSE WE'RE WATSON YES.
BECAUSE WE WERE DENHA YES.
COUNTERMARCH YES WE ARE TAYLOR
YES WE'RE IHR YES.
CUSTOMER YES.
CUSTOMER BRIGS YES.
MOTION CARRIES MISCALLED WE
HAVE THE PLEASURE OF A CLOSED
SESSION TODAY WE HAVE BEFORE US
THE CRUCIAL PART
OF COMMUNICATIONS PETITIONS AND
REFERRALS MAY HAVE A MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THE CLERK'S
MOVE BY COUNCILOR WATSON BY
COUNCILOR GHAZI EDWYN
DISCUSSION OF THE CLERK'S
REPORT ON FAVOR POST CLERKS
REPORT IS APPROVED.
WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ATTORNEY.
WE HAVE A PUBLIC COMMENT
OVERFLOW IN THAT CASE WE HAVE A
MOTION TO ADJOURN PLEASE MOVE
BY COUNCILOR WATSON BY
COUNCILOR DITCHED DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR POSED.
WE ARE ADJOURNED